# SC-200 flashcards (domains 1–3)
# Export for second-model review: FRONT / BACK / explanation. Flag any back or explanation that is factually wrong for the current product, citing Microsoft Learn.

[1] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.1 (Configure email notifications in Microsoft Defender XDR, including incidents, actions, and threat analytics)
FRONT: Incident email notifications — where you create the rule
BACK: #Settings > Microsoft Defender XDR > Email notifications > Incidents | One rule = recipients + filters (severity, device groups, sources)
WHY: Incident notifications are tenant-level rules in the Defender portal, not a per-user mailbox setting. Each rule names recipients and the filters that decide which new incidents trigger mail. The exam likes to contrast this tab with the Actions tab (response actions) and the Threat analytics tab (report updates), so remember that incidents, actions and threat analytics are three separate tabs under the same Email notifications page.
HOOK: Three tabs, one page: Incidents, Actions, Threat analytics.

[2] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.1 (Configure email notifications in Microsoft Defender XDR, including incidents, actions, and threat analytics)
FRONT: Incident notification rule — the filters you can set
BACK: #Alert severity, device groups, service sources, detection sources | Option to send only one email per incident
WHY: A rule can be narrowed to specific severities (for example High only), to selected device groups, to particular service sources such as Defender for Endpoint, and to detection sources inside those services. A checkbox limits delivery to the first notification for an incident so updates do not spam the inbox. Stem wording such as 'notify the SOC only for high-severity incidents on the Finance device group' maps straight onto these filters.
HOOK: Filter by severity, group, source; optionally one mail per incident.

[3] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.1 (Configure email notifications in Microsoft Defender XDR, including incidents, actions, and threat analytics)
FRONT: Who can create Defender XDR email notification rules?
BACK: #Manage security settings permission (Security Administrator or higher) | With RBAC, only for device groups the user manages
WHY: Notification rules require the 'Manage security settings' permission, which Security Administrator and Global Administrator hold by default and which Unified RBAC can grant to a custom role. When device-group RBAC is in use, an analyst can only create, edit, delete or receive rules scoped to device groups they are permitted to manage. A question where a scoped analyst cannot see an org-wide rule is testing this boundary.

[4] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.1 (Configure email notifications in Microsoft Defender XDR, including incidents, actions, and threat analytics)
FRONT: Actions email notifications — what they report
BACK: #Response actions completed or failed | Manual and/or automated (AIR, attack disruption) sources, filtered by action type and device group
WHY: The Actions tab sends mail when a response action finishes or fails. You choose the source (manual actions by analysts, automated actions from AIR and attack disruption, or both), the status (completed, failed, both), optional action types, and a device-group scope that can include all current and future groups. It needs the same Manage security settings permission as the other tabs. Note that response actions attached to custom detection rules are not covered by these notifications.

[5] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.1 (Configure email notifications in Microsoft Defender XDR, including incidents, actions, and threat analytics)
FRONT: Threat analytics email notifications — what you choose
BACK: #All reports, specific report types, or specific tags (e.g. Ransomware) | Email notifications > Threat analytics tab
WHY: The Threat analytics tab creates rules that mail recipients when Microsoft publishes or updates intelligence reports. You can subscribe to everything, to a report type, or to tags such as Ransomware or Activity group, then add recipients and send a test. Rule names accept only English letters and numbers. On the exam, 'be told when a new report about a threat actor is published' points here, not to incident or alert notifications.
HOOK: Reports, not incidents: threat analytics tab.

[6] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.1 (Configure email notifications in Microsoft Defender XDR, including incidents, actions, and threat analytics)
FRONT: Endpoint alert email notifications (Settings > Endpoints) — how they differ
BACK: #Legacy per-alert mails from Defender for Endpoint | Severity + device groups; only Global Admin can target all devices
WHY: Besides the Defender XDR tabs, Defender for Endpoint still has its own Email notifications page under Settings > Endpoints > General. It fires per alert, with severity levels and device-group selection, and can include the device name and a portal link. Only a Global Administrator can choose all devices; other roles are limited to groups they manage. Exam stems that say 'alert' and 'endpoints settings' want this page; stems that say 'incident' want the XDR page.
HOOK: Endpoint page = alerts; XDR page = incidents.

[7] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.1 (Configure email notifications in Microsoft Defender XDR, including incidents, actions, and threat analytics)
FRONT: Test email in a notification rule — purpose
BACK: #Confirms recipients and delivery before the rule goes live | Available on incident, action and threat analytics rules
WHY: Every notification flyout includes a send-test-email button. It proves the addresses are reachable and the mail is not filtered, which matters because rules are tenant-wide and silently failing mail is a common SOC gap. In a troubleshooting stem where recipients 'never receive notifications', the first checks are the rule's filters, the recipient's device-group permissions, and a test send.

[8] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.2 (Configure alert notifications in Microsoft Defender XDR, including tuning, suppression, and correlation)
FRONT: Alert tuning — what it is
BACK: #Rules that automatically hide, resolve or reclassify matching alerts | Settings > Microsoft Defender XDR > Alert tuning (successor of alert suppression)
WHY: Alert tuning lets you describe expected organizational behavior as conditions and tell Defender XDR what to do when a future alert matches. It replaced the older alert suppression feature and spans multiple Defender services rather than endpoints only. Typical stem: a scheduled admin script keeps raising the same alert and you must stop the noise without disabling detection — the answer is a tuning rule, not deleting the alert or changing the device group.
HOOK: Tuning = suppression grown up, across services.

[9] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.2 (Configure alert notifications in Microsoft Defender XDR, including tuning, suppression, and correlation)
FRONT: Alert tuning rule — condition types
BACK: #Evidence types: file, process, scheduled task, AMSI script, WMI event, other IOCs | Combine with AND / OR and grouping
WHY: Conditions describe the evidence that triggered the alert: a file hash or path, a process command line, a scheduled task, an AMSI script, a WMI event, or another indicator. Several conditions can be grouped with AND and OR to describe a precise situation, for example this process launched by this parent on devices in this group. The tighter the condition set, the less chance of hiding a genuine attack that merely resembles the benign activity.

[10] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.2 (Configure alert notifications in Microsoft Defender XDR, including tuning, suppression, and correlation)
FRONT: Alert tuning action: Hide alert
BACK: #Suppresses the alert and stops incident creation (Defender for Endpoint alerts) | Data still lands in AlertInfo / AlertEvidence
WHY: Hide alert is the strongest tuning action: matching Defender for Endpoint alerts are kept out of the queue and never create an incident. The underlying data remains in advanced hunting, so a hunter can still find hidden alerts in AlertInfo and AlertEvidence. Choose this when the behavior is fully understood and you need zero noise; choose Resolve when you still want a record in the queue.

[11] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.2 (Configure alert notifications in Microsoft Defender XDR, including tuning, suppression, and correlation)
FRONT: Alert tuning action: Resolve alert
BACK: #Alert is created, then auto-set to Resolved | The related incident is resolved as well
WHY: Resolve alert leaves an audit trail: the alert and its incident are created, then immediately marked resolved by the rule. Analysts can still open the record and see what happened, which suits scenarios where compliance wants evidence that the activity was reviewed. If the stem says the alerts must 'remain visible but not require triage', Resolve is the fit; if it says 'never appear', Hide is.
HOOK: Resolve keeps the paper trail; Hide removes it from the queue.

[12] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.2 (Configure alert notifications in Microsoft Defender XDR, including tuning, suppression, and correlation)
FRONT: Alert tuning action: Set as behavior
BACK: #Matching signals become behaviors, not alerts | Stored in BehaviorInfo / BehaviorEntities; not for Defender for Cloud or Office 365
WHY: Set as behavior converts future matches into behavior records that do not reach the alert queue or create incidents but remain queryable in BehaviorInfo and BehaviorEntities for hunting and context. It is not supported for alerts from Defender for Cloud or Defender for Office 365. The exam may present it as the middle ground between keeping noisy alerts and losing the telemetry entirely.

[13] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.2 (Configure alert notifications in Microsoft Defender XDR, including tuning, suppression, and correlation)
FRONT: Alert tuning rule scope — service sources
BACK: #Pick which Defender services the rule applies to | Can be created from the Alert tuning page or directly from an alert
WHY: When you build a tuning rule you choose the service sources it covers, such as Defender for Endpoint or Defender for Office 365, so one rule does not accidentally silence a different product's detection. Rules can also be started from an alert's details page, which prefills the evidence from that alert. A stem that asks to 'tune this specific alert without affecting other workloads' is pointing at the service-source selection.

[14] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.2 (Configure alert notifications in Microsoft Defender XDR, including tuning, suppression, and correlation)
FRONT: Legacy Defender for Endpoint alert suppression rules
BACK: #Settings > Endpoints > Rules > Alert suppression | Endpoint-only rules; editing can release previously suppressed alerts
WHY: Before alert tuning, Defender for Endpoint had its own suppression rules under Settings > Endpoints > Rules. The page still exists to view, enable, disable, edit and delete those rules and shows scope, action and matched-alert counts; when you edit a rule you can release alerts it previously suppressed. Exam questions that mention 'suppression' are usually old-style endpoint rules, while 'tuning' means the cross-service XDR feature.
HOOK: Suppression = endpoint legacy; tuning = XDR-wide.

[15] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.2 (Configure alert notifications in Microsoft Defender XDR, including tuning, suppression, and correlation)
FRONT: How Defender XDR correlates alerts into one incident
BACK: #Shared entities, artifacts, time frame or attack sequence | A sufficiently unique alert starts a new incident
WHY: The correlation engine looks for common users, devices, mailboxes, files, processes and senders across alerts within a time window, plus known multistage patterns such as a phishing mail followed by a click. Related alerts are appended to an existing incident; a sufficiently distinct alert opens a new one. On the exam, the concept explains why one incident can span endpoint, identity and email alerts and why you should investigate incidents rather than isolated alerts.

[16] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.2 (Configure alert notifications in Microsoft Defender XDR, including tuning, suppression, and correlation)
FRONT: 'Restrict correlation to within scoped device groups' — effect
BACK: #Prevents merging incidents whose devices sit in different device groups | Advanced features toggle; off by default
WHY: This advanced feature keeps incidents from being consolidated when their devices belong to different device groups, which matters for MSSPs or segmented SOC teams that must not see each other's incidents. It is not enabled by default. Stem signal: 'analysts in region A see alerts from region B inside their incidents' — the fix is this toggle, not more notification rules.

[17] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.2 (Configure alert notifications in Microsoft Defender XDR, including tuning, suppression, and correlation)
FRONT: When incidents will NOT auto-merge
BACK: #One is closed, different owners, different classification or determination | Also different device groups (if restricted) or entity limits exceeded
WHY: Automatic merging stops when the two incidents disagree on status, assignment, classification or determination, when merging would exceed the entity limit, or when device-group restriction applies. Analysts can still merge up to five incidents manually after resolving those conflicts; the source incident gets a Redirected tag and its alerts, tags and comments move to the target. Exam stems about 'why were these not combined' want one of these blockers.

[18] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.7 (Manage automated investigation and response capabilities in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Automated investigation and response (AIR) — what it does
BACK: #Investigates alerts like a virtual analyst, gathers evidence, proposes remediation | Verdicts: Malicious, Suspicious, No threats found
WHY: When an alert creates an incident, AIR can start an automated investigation that examines files, processes, services, drivers and related entities across devices, identities and email. Each piece of evidence receives a verdict and malicious items get remediation actions such as quarantine, stop process, or isolate device, executed automatically or queued for approval depending on the automation level. The exam tests the levels, the Action center, and the fact that email remediation always needs approval.
HOOK: AIR = investigate, verdict, remediate (or ask).

[19] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.7 (Manage automated investigation and response capabilities in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Automation level: Full - remediate threats automatically
BACK: #All remediation runs without approval | Actions logged in Action center History; recommended level
WHY: Full automation lets AIR execute every remediation it decides on, recording each action in the Action center History tab where it can be reviewed and, where supported, undone. Microsoft recommends it and it is the default for tenants created on or after 16 August 2020 and for Defender for Business. Stem signal: 'minimize analyst effort' or 'remediate without manual approval' means Full.

[20] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.7 (Manage automated investigation and response capabilities in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Automation level: Semi - require approval for all folders
BACK: #Every remediation waits in Action center Pending | Pending actions expire after 7 days
WHY: At this level AIR still investigates, but each remediation on files in any folder is queued for an analyst to approve or reject in the Pending tab. Unapproved actions time out after seven days. This was the default for tenants created before 16 August 2020. The exam contrasts it with the two narrower Semi levels, which auto-remediate in some locations and only ask for others.
HOOK: 'All folders' = ask about everything.

[21] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.7 (Manage automated investigation and response capabilities in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Automation level: Semi - require approval for core folders remediation
BACK: #Approval needed only for OS directories such as \windows\* | Files elsewhere are remediated automatically
WHY: Core folders are operating-system locations, for example anything under \windows. With this level AIR auto-remediates files outside those directories but requires a human to approve changes inside them, protecting system stability while still handling most threats hands-free. Stem signal: 'automatically remediate user files but require approval for changes to Windows system folders'.

[22] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.7 (Manage automated investigation and response capabilities in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Automation level: Semi - require approval for non-temp folders remediation
BACK: #Auto-remediates only in temporary folders (temp, downloads, program files…) | Everything else waits for approval
WHY: This is the most cautious Semi level: AIR acts on its own only in locations Microsoft classes as temporary, such as users' AppData\Local\Temp, Windows\Temp, Downloads and Program Files, and queues everything else for approval. Compare with the core-folders level, which is the opposite emphasis. If a stem wants 'automatic cleanup of downloaded malware but approval for anything outside temp locations', this is the match.
HOOK: Non-temp = ask unless it is in a temp-style folder.

[23] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.7 (Manage automated investigation and response capabilities in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Automation level: No automated response
BACK: #Automated investigation does not run for the device group | No actions taken or queued; not recommended
WHY: Setting a device group to No automated response switches AIR off for those devices: no investigation, no pending actions, nothing in the Action center. Other protections such as antivirus still apply. Microsoft advises against it, and it also removes the group from automatic attack disruption containment. Exam stems about 'why did no automated investigation start for these servers' often resolve to this level on their device group.

[24] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.7 (Manage automated investigation and response capabilities in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Where is the AIR automation level set?
BACK: #Per device group: Settings > Endpoints > Device groups | Each group chooses its own remediation level
WHY: Automation levels are not a single tenant switch; they are a property of each Defender for Endpoint device group, configured under Settings > Endpoints > Permissions > Device groups. That is why a SOC can run Full on workstations and a Semi level on domain controllers. Any stem that asks for different automation behavior for different sets of devices is really asking you to create or edit device groups.
HOOK: Automation level lives on the device group.

[25] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.7 (Manage automated investigation and response capabilities in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Action center — Pending tab
BACK: #Remediation actions awaiting approval | Approve or reject one at a time or in bulk for the same action type
WHY: The Pending tab under Actions and submissions > Action center lists every remediation AIR proposed under a Semi automation level plus email actions, which always wait for approval. Analysts review each action, approve or reject it, and can bulk-approve selections of the same type. Approving promptly matters because pending actions expire. Stem signal: 'the investigation is stuck at Pending approval'.

[26] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.7 (Manage automated investigation and response capabilities in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Action center — History tab
BACK: #Audit log of completed actions: AIR, manual, live response, antivirus | Starting point for undoing an action
WHY: History shows what already happened: remediation from automated investigations, manual actions on devices, files, emails and URLs, live response commands and antivirus actions, with who and when. Completed actions that support reversal, such as device isolation or app restriction, can be undone from here. On the exam, 'review what AIR did last night' is History; 'approve what AIR wants to do' is Pending.
HOOK: Pending = future, History = past (and undo).

[27] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.7 (Manage automated investigation and response capabilities in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Undoing a remediation action
BACK: #Select the completed action in Action center History and choose Undo | Supported for actions like isolate device and restrict code execution
WHY: Remediation is reversible for a defined set of actions. From the History tab you pick the action and undo it, for example releasing a device from isolation or removing an app-execution restriction that a Full-automation investigation applied. Not every action can be reversed, so the exam may ask which pane to use (History) and which actions qualify rather than simply whether undo exists.

[28] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.7 (Manage automated investigation and response capabilities in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Email and content remediation in AIR — approval rule
BACK: #Never executed automatically | All Defender for Office 365 remediation waits in the Action center
WHY: Even with Full automation on every device group, AIR does not act on email or collaboration content on its own: soft-delete, move-to-junk and similar actions from Defender for Office 365 investigations are queued for the SOC to approve. Exam stems that claim 'the malicious messages were removed automatically by AIR' are describing something that does not happen; the correct flow is Pending approval in the Action center.

[29] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.8 (Configure automatic attack disruption in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Automatic attack disruption — what it does
BACK: #Contains compromised devices and users mid-attack with high confidence | Limits lateral movement; actions are reversible by the SOC
WHY: Attack disruption uses cross-workload XDR signals and Microsoft threat intelligence to recognise an in-progress campaign, such as human-operated ransomware or business email compromise, and immediately contain the assets the attacker controls. It acts before a human triages the incident, yet every action can be undone. Distinguish it from AIR: AIR investigates individual alerts after the fact; disruption stops an active, high-confidence attack chain.

[30] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.8 (Configure automatic attack disruption in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Attack disruption action: Contain device
BACK: #Other onboarded devices block traffic to and from the suspect device | Needs Defender for Endpoint and standard device discovery
WHY: Contain device instructs every onboarded Defender for Endpoint device to drop communication with the compromised machine, which works even when that machine is unmanaged. The contained device itself keeps running. Device discovery must be in Standard mode for this to function. Compare with Isolate device, which cuts the suspect device off at its own network stack but keeps its link to the Defender service.

[31] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.8 (Configure automatic attack disruption in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Attack disruption action: Contain user
BACK: #Blocks a compromised account's authentication, file and network access across devices | Requires Sense agent 10.8470 or later
WHY: Contain user stops an attacker-controlled account from moving laterally by blocking its sign-ins and its SMB, RDP and similar activity on onboarded endpoints, without yet disabling the account in the directory. It needs a recent Defender for Endpoint sensor. A stem describing a service account being used for lateral movement with the requirement 'stop it immediately without disabling the account' points at this action.

[32] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.8 (Configure automatic attack disruption in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Attack disruption action: Disable user
BACK: #Account disabled in Active Directory and/or Entra ID | Defender for Identity sensors act on domain controllers for AD accounts
WHY: Disable user removes the account's ability to sign in. For on-premises accounts, Defender for Identity triggers the disable on domain controllers that run a sensor; for synced accounts it disables in both AD and Entra ID; cloud-only accounts are handled through a Microsoft-managed Defender for Identity enterprise application. Stem signal: hybrid environment plus 'the account must be disabled on-premises as well as in the cloud'.
HOOK: Hybrid disable = DfI sensor on the DC does the work.

[33] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.8 (Configure automatic attack disruption in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: How attack disruption shows on an incident
BACK: #'Attack Disruption' tag in the queue and on the incident | Yellow banner; API titles get the suffix (attack disruption)
WHY: Disrupted incidents carry a dedicated tag visible in the incident queue and on the incident page, together with a banner that explains the automatic action and asset status markers in the graph such as 'device contained' or 'account disabled'. Incidents fetched through the API carry the suffix in their title. Exam stems describing a tag you did not add yourself are usually about this feature.

[34] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.8 (Configure automatic attack disruption in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Attack disruption prerequisites
BACK: #Defender XDR workloads deployed; device groups not set to No automated response | Standard device discovery for Contain device
WHY: Disruption needs the relevant Defender products deployed (Endpoint for device actions, Identity for identity actions, Office 365 and Cloud Apps for their signals) and the device groups involved must have an automation level other than No automated response. Contain device also requires device discovery in Standard mode. Configuration lives under Settings > Endpoints > Advanced features and needs Security Administrator or similar.

[35] cat=xdrauto obj=1.1.8 (Configure automatic attack disruption in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Attack disruption exclusions
BACK: #Users, devices or IPs you never want contained automatically | Separate from selective-isolation exclusions
WHY: Critical assets such as a backup server, a break-glass account or a monitoring appliance can be excluded so that disruption never contains or disables them. Exclusions are configured in the attack disruption settings. Do not confuse them with selective isolation exclusions, which define which processes and destinations an isolated device may still reach. Stem signal: 'ensure the domain controller is never automatically contained'.
HOOK: Exclude the asset you cannot afford to have contained.

[36] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.3 (Configure Microsoft Defender for Endpoint advanced features)
FRONT: Advanced features page — where it is
BACK: #Settings > Endpoints > General > Advanced features | Tenant-wide toggles for Defender for Endpoint capabilities
WHY: Advanced features is the single page of on/off switches that unlock tenant-wide Defender for Endpoint behavior: live response, EDR in block mode, tamper protection, custom network indicators, web content filtering, device discovery, Intune and Defender for Cloud Apps connections, preview features and more. The exam expects you to know which capability is a toggle here versus a per-policy or per-device-group setting, and the path to reach it.
HOOK: If it is a tenant-wide switch, it is probably on Advanced features.

[37] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.3 (Configure Microsoft Defender for Endpoint advanced features)
FRONT: Advanced feature: Live response
BACK: #Lets permitted users open remote shell sessions on devices | Separate toggle for servers; a third allows unsigned scripts
WHY: Turning on Live response allows analysts holding the live response permission to connect to an onboarded device and run commands such as collecting files or running scripts. Servers need the additional 'Live response for servers' toggle, and 'Allow unsigned script execution in live response' is a third, riskier switch for scripts that are not signed. A stem where an analyst 'cannot start a session on a Windows Server' usually lacks the server toggle.

[38] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.3 (Configure Microsoft Defender for Endpoint advanced features)
FRONT: Advanced feature: Allow unsigned script execution in live response
BACK: #Permits running unsigned PowerShell scripts in a session | Off by default; raises risk
WHY: By default a live response session only runs scripts that are signed. This toggle lifts that restriction so analysts can upload and execute ad-hoc, unsigned scripts from the library. Because it widens what an attacker with portal access could do, Microsoft keeps it off by default. Exam signal: 'the custom .ps1 fails to run in live response' with no signing infrastructure mentioned.

[39] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.3 (Configure Microsoft Defender for Endpoint advanced features)
FRONT: Advanced feature: Enable EDR in block mode
BACK: #Defender AV remediates EDR behavioral detections even in passive mode | For devices where a non-Microsoft AV is primary
WHY: EDR in block mode lets Defender for Endpoint act on post-breach behavioral detections when Microsoft Defender Antivirus is running passively behind another vendor's AV. Blocked items show as Blocked or Prevented in the Action center. It needs Plan 2, cloud protection and current platform versions. If the stem says 'third-party antivirus' and asks how to still get automated blocking from Defender, this toggle is the answer.
HOOK: Third-party AV in front? EDR in block mode still bites.

[40] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.3 (Configure Microsoft Defender for Endpoint advanced features)
FRONT: Advanced feature: Enable tamper protection
BACK: #Locks Defender AV settings against local or malicious changes | Tenant-wide switch; Intune can scope it instead
WHY: Tamper protection stops real-time protection, cloud protection, behavior monitoring, security intelligence updates and similar settings from being disabled by local admins, scripts or malware. The portal toggle applies to the whole tenant, while Intune or Configuration Manager tenant attach can target specific groups and exclude devices. Stem signal: 'malware disabled real-time protection on several devices' — the control that would have prevented it is tamper protection.

[41] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.3 (Configure Microsoft Defender for Endpoint advanced features)
FRONT: Advanced feature: Automatically resolve alerts
BACK: #Resolves alerts when AIR finds no threat or remediates it | Without it, those alerts stay open for manual closure
WHY: With this switch on, an alert whose automated investigation ends in 'No threats found' or in successful remediation is set to Resolved without an analyst touching it. If it is off, the alert remains in the queue even though the investigation finished. A stem that says 'alerts remediated by AIR remain open' is pointing at this toggle rather than at the automation level.

[42] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.3 (Configure Microsoft Defender for Endpoint advanced features)
FRONT: Advanced feature: Allow or block file
BACK: #Enables file-hash indicators that stop files being read, written or run | Prerequisite for block/allow file actions
WHY: Allow or block file turns on the ability to create file indicators that prevent a given hash from executing across the organization, or to explicitly allow a file Defender would otherwise flag. It is a prerequisite for the 'Block file' response action and for file-hash entries on the Indicators page. Stem signal: 'the Block option is greyed out on the file page' means this toggle is off.

[43] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.3 (Configure Microsoft Defender for Endpoint advanced features)
FRONT: Advanced feature: Custom network indicators
BACK: #Allows IP, URL and domain indicators to be enforced | Relies on network protection and SmartScreen
WHY: Custom network indicators unlocks the IP addresses and URLs/Domains tabs of the Indicators page so the SOC can allow, warn on or block destinations. Enforcement in non-Microsoft browsers depends on network protection in block mode; Microsoft Edge uses SmartScreen. Stem signal: a request to block a command-and-control domain on all endpoints — first the toggle, then the indicator.

[44] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.3 (Configure Microsoft Defender for Endpoint advanced features)
FRONT: Advanced feature: Web content filtering
BACK: #Block website categories (adult, gambling, hacking, streaming…) per device group | Reports under Web protection
WHY: Web content filtering lets you build policies that block parent categories such as Adult content, High bandwidth, Legal liability, Leisure and Uncategorized, scoped to device groups. Multiple policies on one group resolve to the most restrictive. Enforcement again needs network protection or SmartScreen. Distinguish from indicators: indicators target specific URLs, filtering targets whole categories.
HOOK: Indicators = this URL; web content filtering = this kind of site.

[45] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.3 (Configure Microsoft Defender for Endpoint advanced features)
FRONT: Advanced feature: Device discovery
BACK: #Finds unmanaged devices on the corporate network | Basic (passive) or Standard (active, default) mode
WHY: Device discovery uses onboarded endpoints as sensors to find printers, IoT, network gear and un-onboarded computers. Basic mode only listens; Standard mode, the default, actively probes to enrich the inventory and can exclude devices or subnets. Standard discovery is also required for attack disruption's Contain device action. Stem signal: 'identify devices that are not onboarded' or 'contain an unmanaged device'.

[46] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.3 (Configure Microsoft Defender for Endpoint advanced features)
FRONT: Advanced feature: Microsoft Intune connection
BACK: #Shares device risk with Intune for Conditional Access | Also underpins security settings management
WHY: The Intune connection lets Defender for Endpoint report machine risk levels into Intune compliance policies so Conditional Access can block risky devices, and it is a prerequisite for managing endpoint security policies from the Defender portal on devices that are not Intune-enrolled. Stem signal: 'block access to Microsoft 365 from devices with a high risk level' — enable this toggle, then build compliance and Conditional Access policies.

[47] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.3 (Configure Microsoft Defender for Endpoint advanced features)
FRONT: Advanced feature: Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps integration
BACK: #Forwards endpoint network signals to Defender for Cloud Apps | Powers cloud discovery without a log collector
WHY: With this toggle, Defender for Endpoint streams its view of which cloud apps devices talk to into Defender for Cloud Apps, so shadow-IT discovery works for roaming devices without firewall or proxy logs. It also lets Cloud Apps unsanctioned-app blocks be enforced on endpoints as indicators. Stem signal: 'discover cloud app usage on laptops outside the corporate network'.

[48] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.3 (Configure Microsoft Defender for Endpoint advanced features)
FRONT: Advanced feature: Share endpoint alerts with Microsoft Compliance Center
BACK: #Sends endpoint alerts to Purview for insider risk management | Separate from the unified audit log toggle
WHY: This switch forwards Defender for Endpoint security alerts to Microsoft Purview so insider risk management policies can use them as indicators. It is distinct from 'Enable the unified audit log', which exposes Defender events to Purview Audit search. Stem signal: 'insider risk policies should factor in endpoint security violations' — this is the toggle, not an analytics rule.

[49] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.4 (Configure rules settings in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint)
FRONT: Indicators page — the four indicator types
BACK: #File hashes (SHA1/SHA256), IP addresses, URLs/domains, certificates | Settings > Endpoints > Rules > Indicators
WHY: Indicators of compromise are custom allow/block entries managed under Rules > Indicators. File hashes cover SHA1 and SHA256, IP indicators are single external addresses with no CIDR, URL and domain entries handle web destinations, and certificate indicators allow or block signed binaries by signer. Each entry carries an action, severity, optional expiry and a device-group scope. The exam tests which type fits the artifact in the stem.

[50] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.4 (Configure rules settings in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint)
FRONT: Indicator actions — allow, audit, warn, block, block and remediate
BACK: #Allow > Warn > Block precedence when entries conflict | Block and remediate only for file indicators
WHY: An indicator's action decides what happens on a match: Allow suppresses detection, Audit only logs, Warn shows an overridable prompt, Block prevents the file or connection, and Block and remediate also quarantines, which is only available for files. If several indicators target the same artifact, Allow wins over Warn, which wins over Block. Stem signal: 'the site is still reachable despite a block indicator' — look for a conflicting allow.

[51] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.4 (Configure rules settings in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint)
FRONT: Network indicator prerequisites
BACK: #Custom network indicators toggle on, network protection in block mode | Defender AV active with cloud protection; external IPs only
WHY: IP, URL and domain indicators only enforce when the Custom network indicators advanced feature is on and network protection runs in block mode for non-Microsoft browsers, with Microsoft Defender Antivirus active, behavior monitoring and cloud-delivered protection enabled. Internal IP ranges and CIDR blocks are not supported. Propagation can take up to 48 hours. Troubleshooting stems about indicators not blocking usually hide one of these prerequisites.
HOOK: No network protection, no network indicator.

[52] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.4 (Configure rules settings in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint)
FRONT: Indicator scope and expiration
BACK: #Scope: all devices or selected device groups | Expiry date optional; import up to 500 per CSV
WHY: Each indicator can apply to the whole organization or only to chosen device groups, and may carry an expiration time after which it stops applying. Indicators can be created singly, imported from CSV (500 per file) or pushed through the API, and can optionally generate an alert with a title, severity, category and MITRE technique. Stem signal: 'block the hash only on the Finance workstations for 30 days' combines scope and expiry.

[53] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.4 (Configure rules settings in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint)
FRONT: Automation folder exclusions
BACK: #Folders AIR skips during automated investigation | Fields: folder (trailing wildcard), extensions, file names, description
WHY: Under Settings > Endpoints > Rules, automation folder exclusions tell AIR not to examine or remediate content in given folders, optionally narrowed by extension or file name so attackers cannot hide in a broad exclusion. Excluded files are still scanned by antivirus, and live response reports 'File is excluded' when asked to collect them. Stem signal: 'prevent automated investigation from quarantining the build server's output directory'.

[54] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.4 (Configure rules settings in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint)
FRONT: Automation uploads (content analysis)
BACK: #Which file and attachment extensions AIR submits to the cloud | Settings > Endpoints > Rules > Automation uploads
WHY: Automation uploads controls whether suspicious files and email attachments found during an automated investigation are sent to Microsoft's cloud for deeper inspection, and which extensions qualify. Submitted files are stored for six months. The special entry of a double quote represents files with no extension. Stem signal: 'ensure .bat files found by AIR are analyzed in the cloud' is this page, not an indicator.

[55] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.5 (Configure custom data collection in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint)
FRONT: Defender for Endpoint data retention — the default
BACK: #Data is kept for 180 days and visible across the portal | Advanced hunting queries reach 30 days of raw data
WHY: Defender for Endpoint and the wider Defender XDR portal retain data for 180 days, with advanced hunting able to query the last 30 days of raw events. The Data retention page under Settings > Endpoints > General lets you set the retention period for the tenant. If longer hunting history is needed, the exam expects you to stream the tables to Microsoft Sentinel rather than change the Defender default.
HOOK: 180 portal, 30 hunting; longer means Sentinel.

[56] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.5 (Configure custom data collection in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint)
FRONT: Data storage location for Defender for Endpoint
BACK: #Chosen at provisioning from supported geos (EU, UK, US, AU, CH, IN, UAE…) | Cannot be moved afterwards
WHY: When the tenant is first set up, Defender data is pinned to a geography such as the European Union, United Kingdom, United States, Australia, Switzerland, India or the UAE, and the region is shown under Settings > Microsoft Defender XDR > Account. The location cannot be changed later. Compliance-flavored stems that demand data stay in a particular region are answered by provisioning in that geo, not by a retention setting.

[57] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.5 (Configure custom data collection in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint)
FRONT: Collect investigation package — what it gathers
BACK: #Autoruns, installed programs, network connections, prefetch, processes, scheduled tasks, security event log, services, SMB sessions, users | Zip downloaded from the device page / Action center
WHY: The investigation package is a response action that bundles forensic artifacts from a device into a downloadable zip: autostart entries, program list, network and ARP/DNS data, prefetch, running processes, scheduled tasks, the security event log, services, SMB sessions, system information, temp directories, users and groups and Defender support logs. It is the exam's go-to for 'collect evidence without a live response session'.
HOOK: Package = snapshot of the device, no shell needed.

[58] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.5 (Configure custom data collection in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint)
FRONT: Download quarantined files — advanced feature
BACK: #Backs up quarantined files so analysts can retrieve them | Files downloaded from a secure, compliant location
WHY: This toggle makes Defender for Endpoint keep a copy of files that Microsoft Defender Antivirus quarantines so an analyst can download them later for analysis. Without it, the quarantined sample stays only on the device. Stem signal: 'obtain a copy of the malware that was quarantined on a laptop that is now offline' — the file is only retrievable if this feature was already on.

[59] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.6 (Configure security policies for Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, including attack surface reduction (ASR) rules)
FRONT: Attack surface reduction (ASR) rules — modes
BACK: #Not configured/Disabled (0), Block (1), Audit (2), Warn (6) | Set per rule; test in Audit before Block
WHY: Each ASR rule runs in one of four modes. Audit records what would have been blocked without stopping it, Block enforces, Warn blocks but lets the user bypass, and Disabled turns the rule off. Microsoft's deployment guidance is to run rules in Audit, review the ASR report, add exclusions, then move to Block. The numeric values matter when the stem shows Intune or PowerShell configuration.
HOOK: 0 off, 1 block, 2 audit, 6 warn.

[60] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.6 (Configure security policies for Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, including attack surface reduction (ASR) rules)
FRONT: ASR rules that cannot use Warn mode
BACK: #Block credential stealing from LSASS | Block Office applications from injecting code into other processes
WHY: Warn mode gives users a bypass prompt, which is unsafe for two rules: the one protecting the Local Security Authority Subsystem from credential dumping and the one stopping Office apps from injecting into other processes. For those, only Audit or Block apply. An exam stem that tries to set Warn on either is describing an unsupported configuration.

[61] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.6 (Configure security policies for Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, including attack surface reduction (ASR) rules)
FRONT: ASR rule: Block all Office applications from creating child processes
BACK: #Stops Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc. spawning other executables | Classic defense against macro droppers
WHY: This rule prevents Office applications from launching child processes such as PowerShell or cmd, which is how most macro-based droppers start their payload. It supports Audit, Block and Warn and accepts exclusions. On the exam, 'users open a malicious document and PowerShell runs' is the fingerprint for this rule; a sibling rule, 'Block Office applications from creating executable content', targets files written to disk instead.

[62] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.6 (Configure security policies for Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, including attack surface reduction (ASR) rules)
FRONT: ASR rule: Block credential stealing from the Windows local security authority subsystem
BACK: #Protects LSASS memory from tools like Mimikatz | Supports Audit and Block only
WHY: This rule blocks untrusted processes from reading LSASS memory, the usual way attackers harvest credentials for lateral movement. It is one of two rules without Warn mode and has limited exclusion support. Stem signal: 'prevent credential dumping on workstations' or any mention of lsass.exe access by a suspicious tool.

[63] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.6 (Configure security policies for Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, including attack surface reduction (ASR) rules)
FRONT: ASR rule: Block executable content from email client and webmail
BACK: #Stops executables delivered by Outlook or webmail from running | Covers .exe, .dll, .scr and script files
WHY: The rule prevents executable files and scripts that were delivered through Outlook or popular webmail from running, cutting off a common initial-access path even if the mail filter missed it. Stem signal: 'users run an attachment received by email'. Compare with 'Block JavaScript or VBScript from launching downloaded executable content', which targets browser-delivered scripts.

[64] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.6 (Configure security policies for Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, including attack surface reduction (ASR) rules)
FRONT: ASR rule: Use advanced protection against ransomware
BACK: #Cloud-backed check that blocks files resembling ransomware | Requires cloud-delivered protection
WHY: This rule uses client and cloud heuristics to stop files that look like ransomware from executing unless they are known trusted or sufficiently prevalent. It depends on cloud-delivered protection being on. Stem signal: a scenario demanding an endpoint-level ransomware safeguard beyond signatures. Note it is distinct from controlled folder access, which protects folders rather than blocking the executable.

[65] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.6 (Configure security policies for Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, including attack surface reduction (ASR) rules)
FRONT: ASR exclusions
BACK: #Exclude files and folders from a rule to fix false positives | Per-rule exclusions supported for many rules; added after Audit review
WHY: When Audit mode shows a line-of-business app tripping a rule, you add an exclusion so the rule ignores that file or folder, then move the rule to Block. Many rules support per-rule exclusions; some have limited exclusion support. Exclusions are configured in the same Intune or Defender-portal policy as the rules. Stem signal: 'enable the rule in block mode without breaking the accounting application'.

[66] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.6 (Configure security policies for Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, including attack surface reduction (ASR) rules)
FRONT: Endpoint security policies in the Defender portal
BACK: #Endpoints > Configuration management > Endpoint security policies | AV, AV exclusions, firewall, EDR, ASR, device control, update controls
WHY: The Defender portal can create and assign the same endpoint security policy types Intune offers — antivirus, antivirus exclusions, firewall and firewall rules, endpoint detection and response, attack surface reduction, device control, Defender update controls — to both Intune-enrolled and Defender-managed devices from one console. Stem signal: 'manage ASR rules without granting the Intune administrator role'.

[67] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.6 (Configure security policies for Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, including attack surface reduction (ASR) rules)
FRONT: Security settings management — Intune-enrolled vs Defender-managed devices
BACK: #Defender-managed devices are not enrolled in Intune but still receive policies | Assign to Entra device groups only (no user groups)
WHY: Security settings management lets a device onboarded to Defender for Endpoint but not enrolled in Intune receive endpoint security policies, after the Intune connection is enabled and the feature turned on. Such devices must be targeted through Microsoft Entra device groups; user-group assignment works only for Intune-enrolled devices, and device control policies apply only to enrolled devices. Stem signal: 'servers that are not managed by Intune must receive the ASR policy'.
HOOK: Not enrolled? Device groups only.

[68] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.9 (Configure and manage device groups, permissions, and automation levels in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint)
FRONT: Device groups — what they control
BACK: #Automation level, RBAC access, and scoping for policies and filters | Settings > Endpoints > Permissions > Device groups
WHY: A device group is the unit of policy in Defender for Endpoint. It carries the AIR remediation level, the Microsoft Entra user groups that may access its devices through RBAC, and it scopes notifications, indicators, web content filtering and reports. Up to 2,000 groups per tenant are allowed. Almost every 'different behavior for different devices' stem resolves to creating a group with the right rule, rank and level.
HOOK: Device group = automation level + who may see it.

[69] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.9 (Configure and manage device groups, permissions, and automation levels in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint)
FRONT: Device group membership rules
BACK: #Match on device name, domain, tag, OS platform | All conditions must match; up to 10 values per property
WHY: Membership is dynamic: you write conditions on device name, domain, tags and operating system, and every condition must be true for a device to join. Each property accepts up to ten values combined with OR. Tags are the most flexible lever because they can be set by registry, Intune, API or portal. Stem signal: 'all Windows Server devices in the Fabrikam domain tagged Finance' is a single group rule.

[70] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.9 (Configure and manage device groups, permissions, and automation levels in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint)
FRONT: Device group rank — how overlaps resolve
BACK: #Rank 1 is evaluated first; a device joins only the highest-ranked match | Ungrouped devices catch everything else
WHY: Groups are ordered. When a device satisfies several groups' rules it lands in the one with the best rank, so specific groups must be ranked above broad ones. The built-in Ungrouped devices group collects every device that matches nothing; its rank cannot change and it cannot be deleted, though its automation level and access can be edited. Stem signal: 'the servers ended up in the wrong group' means fix the rank.
HOOK: Specific above general, or the broad group swallows everything.

[71] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.9 (Configure and manage device groups, permissions, and automation levels in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint)
FRONT: Assigning access to a device group
BACK: #Add Microsoft Entra user groups that already hold a Defender for Endpoint role | No groups assigned = all users can access
WHY: With RBAC turned on, each device group lists the Entra user groups allowed to see and act on its devices; those user groups must already be assigned a role under Settings > Endpoints > Permissions > Roles. If no user group is assigned, the device group is visible to everyone with portal access. Stem signal: 'the regional team must only see their own devices' means role + device group assignment.
HOOK: Role first, then device group.

[72] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.9 (Configure and manage device groups, permissions, and automation levels in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint)
FRONT: Defender for Endpoint RBAC role permissions
BACK: #View data, Alerts investigation, Active remediation actions, Live response (basic/advanced), Manage security settings, Manage portal system settings | Settings > Endpoints > Permissions > Roles
WHY: Custom roles bundle permissions: viewing security operations or vulnerability data, managing alerts and running scans or collecting packages, taking response actions and approving remediation, live response basic or advanced commands, managing security settings such as suppression and onboarding, and managing portal system settings, which only the Administrator role holds. Since February 2025, new tenants use Unified RBAC instead of these product-specific roles.

[73] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.9 (Configure and manage device groups, permissions, and automation levels in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint)
FRONT: Basic permissions: Security Reader vs Security Administrator
BACK: #Security Reader: read-only, no device inventory | Security Administrator / Global Administrator: full access
WHY: Before RBAC is enabled, Defender for Endpoint falls back to Microsoft Entra roles: Security Administrator and Global Administrator have full control while Security Reader can only read and cannot view the device list. Microsoft recommends switching to RBAC with custom roles and device groups for least privilege. Stem signal: 'a Security Reader cannot see devices' is expected behavior, not a bug.

[74] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.9 (Configure and manage device groups, permissions, and automation levels in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint)
FRONT: Microsoft Defender Unified RBAC — the idea
BACK: #One permission model across Defender workloads and Sentinel | Permission groups: Security operations, Security posture, Authorization and settings
WHY: Unified RBAC replaces each product's separate role model with custom roles defined once in the Defender portal and scoped to data sources, device groups and Defender for Identity OUs. Permissions are grouped into security operations, security posture, and authorization and settings. Each workload must be activated before unified roles apply, and Entra Global Administrators do not inherit permissions automatically. New Defender for Endpoint tenants have used it by default since 2025.

[75] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.9 (Configure and manage device groups, permissions, and automation levels in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint)
FRONT: Device tags — ways to apply them
BACK: #Portal device page, API, dynamic rules, registry DeviceTagging key, Intune OMA-URI, config profiles | Tags feed device-group rules
WHY: Tags label devices with business context and are the usual input to device-group membership. They can be added manually on a device page, in bulk through the API, automatically with dynamic asset rules, via the DeviceTagging registry value on Windows, through an Intune custom OMA-URI, or with macOS/Linux configuration profiles. Stem signal: 'tag devices during imaging so they auto-join a group' points at the registry or Intune method.

[76] cat=dfecfg obj=1.1.9 (Configure and manage device groups, permissions, and automation levels in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint)
FRONT: Onboarding methods for Windows devices
BACK: #Local script (max 10 devices), Group Policy, Configuration Manager, Intune/MDM, VDI script | Servers: Defender for Cloud or Azure Arc
WHY: Settings > Endpoints > Device management > Onboarding hands out packages per method: a local script for small pilots, Group Policy and Configuration Manager for domain fleets, Intune for MDM-managed devices, a script tailored to non-persistent VDI, and Defender for Cloud or Azure Arc for servers. You also choose standard or streamlined connectivity. Stem signal: a device count or management tool in the scenario picks the method.

[77] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.10 (Create and configure automation rules in Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Automation rule — what it is
BACK: #Central, no-code rule: trigger + conditions + ordered actions | Handles triage and can call playbooks
WHY: Automation rules are Microsoft Sentinel's lightweight SOAR layer. One rule names a trigger, a set of conditions on the incident or alert, and an ordered list of actions such as assigning an owner, changing status or severity, adding tags or tasks, and running playbooks. They apply across many analytics rules at once, which is why the exam prefers them over editing each analytics rule. Stem signal: 'automatically assign' or 'automatically close' without a Logic App.
HOOK: Automation rule first; playbook only when you need external logic.

[78] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.10 (Create and configure automation rules in Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Automation rule trigger: When incident is created
BACK: #Fires once when a new incident appears | Includes incidents synced from Defender XDR and manual incidents
WHY: The incident-created trigger is the default and most common choice. It runs once for each new incident regardless of whether an analytics rule, the Defender XDR connector or an analyst created it. Rules on this trigger run before any update-trigger rules on the same incident. Choose it for initial triage: assignment, tagging, severity adjustments and enrichment playbooks.

[79] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.10 (Create and configure automation rules in Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Automation rule trigger: When incident is updated
BACK: #Fires on status, owner, severity, alert, comment, tag or tactic changes | Condition can test what changed and who changed it
WHY: The incident-updated trigger reacts to changes rather than creation. Conditions can specify the property that changed, its before and after values, and the updater, for example a user, a playbook, an automation rule or alert grouping. Typical exam use: keep an external ticketing system in sync when status changes, or notify a team when severity is raised. Note that in the Defender portal rapid successive changes may be collapsed into the latest one.
HOOK: Updated = react to a change, and you can test 'changed from/to'.

[80] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.10 (Create and configure automation rules in Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Automation rule trigger: When alert is created
BACK: #Fires per alert from Scheduled or NRT analytics rules | Used when incidents are disabled or created elsewhere
WHY: The alert trigger lets you act on individual alerts, which matters when the analytics rule has incident creation turned off, when the workspace is onboarded to the Defender portal (where Sentinel does not create incidents itself), or when you want to enrich an alert before incidents are built. Only alert-trigger playbooks can be attached. Stem signal: 'run a playbook for every alert even if no incident is created'.

[81] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.10 (Create and configure automation rules in Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Automation rule conditions — what you can test
BACK: #Analytics rule name, incident provider, severity, status, tactics, tags, entities, custom details | Operators: equals, contains, starts/ends with and negations
WHY: Conditions narrow when a rule fires. You can match on which analytics rule raised the incident, the provider, severity and status, MITRE tactics, tags, entity properties such as account name or IP, and custom details. Tag conditions can evaluate any single tag or the whole collection. Stems that describe a very specific subset of incidents expect you to build the matching condition rather than a new analytics rule.

[82] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.10 (Create and configure automation rules in Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Automation rule actions
BACK: #Assign owner, change status, change severity, add tags, add task, run playbook | Actions execute in the order listed
WHY: Besides calling a playbook, an automation rule can itself assign the incident to a user or group, set status including closing with a classification and comment, change severity, add tags, and add incident tasks as a checklist for the analyst. Actions run sequentially, so a status change before a playbook means the playbook sees the new state. Stem signal: 'close as benign positive automatically' is a status action, no playbook needed.

[83] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.10 (Create and configure automation rules in Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Automation rule order
BACK: #Rules run sequentially by Order number, lowest first | Later rules evaluate the incident as earlier rules left it
WHY: Each rule has an Order value. Creation-trigger rules run first in order, then update-trigger rules in order; rules sharing a number run in random sequence. Because a later rule sees the incident after earlier rules changed it, a rule that lowers severity can prevent a following rule whose condition requires Medium or higher from firing. Exam stems about a rule 'that never runs' often hide an ordering interaction.
HOOK: Order matters: rule 1's change can switch off rule 2's condition.

[84] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.10 (Create and configure automation rules in Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Automation rule expiration
BACK: #Optional date after which the rule disables itself | Useful for pen tests, maintenance windows, temporary staff
WHY: An expiration date lets you build time-boxed automation, for example auto-closing alerts from a known penetration test next week, or routing incidents to a consultant for a month. When the date passes the rule stops applying without anyone remembering to remove it. Stem signal: 'suppress incidents from the red-team exercise scheduled for 1–5 November' means an automation rule with an expiration, not deleting analytics rules.

[85] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.10 (Create and configure automation rules in Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Incident suppression with an automation rule
BACK: #Condition on the noisy pattern, action: change status to Closed with a reason | Can be created from the Incidents page
WHY: To silence a recurring false positive without disabling the detection, create an automation rule whose conditions match the pattern (rule name, entity, tag) and whose action closes the incident with a classification such as Benign positive. It can be built directly from an incident so the conditions are prefilled. Compare with Defender XDR alert tuning, which does the same for Defender alerts, and with analytics rule suppression, which pauses the query instead.

[86] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.10 (Create and configure automation rules in Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Permission Sentinel needs to run playbooks from automation rules
BACK: #Microsoft Sentinel Automation Contributor on the playbooks' resource group | Granted to the Sentinel service identity via Manage playbook permissions
WHY: Automation rules run playbooks under Sentinel's own service identity, not the analyst's. That identity must hold the Microsoft Sentinel Automation Contributor role on each resource group that holds playbooks, granted through the Manage playbook permissions pane by an Owner or User Access Administrator. In multi-tenant setups the grant is made in the tenant where the playbook lives. Stem signal: 'the playbook runs manually but not from the automation rule'.
HOOK: Manual works, automatic fails? Sentinel lacks Automation Contributor.

[87] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.10 (Create and configure automation rules in Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Where can automation rules be created?
BACK: #Automation page, the analytics rule wizard, or from an incident | Exportable as ARM templates
WHY: Rules can be authored centrally on the Automation page, inline inside the analytics rule wizard's automated response tab (scoped to that rule), or from the Incidents page to suppress a pattern you are looking at. They can be exported to ARM templates for source control and redeployment. On the exam, a stem about reusing automation across workspaces suggests ARM export or workspace manager.

[88] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.11 (Create and configure Microsoft Sentinel playbooks)
FRONT: Sentinel playbook — what it is
BACK: #An Azure Logic Apps workflow started by a Sentinel trigger | Used for enrichment, sync, notification and response
WHY: A playbook is a Logic App whose first step is a Microsoft Sentinel trigger. Its steps can query threat intelligence, open tickets, post to Teams, isolate a device through Defender for Endpoint, or block a user in Entra ID, then write results back as comments or incident updates. Playbooks are billed as Logic Apps resources separately from Sentinel. Stem signal: anything that must talk to an external system or take a response action.

[89] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.11 (Create and configure Microsoft Sentinel playbooks)
FRONT: Playbook trigger: Microsoft Sentinel incident
BACK: #Passes the whole incident: properties, alerts array, entities array | The trigger automation rules can call on incident events
WHY: The incident trigger is the recommended starting point. The playbook receives the incident's properties plus arrays of alerts and entities, and the designer auto-creates loops when you reference them. Only incident-trigger playbooks can be attached to incident-trigger automation rules or run from the incident page. Stem signal: 'the playbook must update the incident and read all entities'.

[90] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.11 (Create and configure Microsoft Sentinel playbooks)
FRONT: Playbook trigger: Microsoft Sentinel alert
BACK: #Passes a single alert object | For rules without incidents; cannot react to Microsoft security rules
WHY: The alert trigger starts a playbook per alert from Scheduled or NRT analytics rules and is used when incident creation is disabled or when alerts are processed before grouping. It cannot automate responses to Microsoft security analytics rules and can be invoked only by alert-trigger automation rules or manual runs on an alert. Use the 'Alert - Get incident' action if you later need the incident.

[91] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.11 (Create and configure Microsoft Sentinel playbooks)
FRONT: Playbook trigger: Microsoft Sentinel entity
BACK: #Passes one entity (account, host, IP, URL, file hash…) | Run manually from an entity page or incident; not callable by automation rules
WHY: Entity-trigger playbooks act on one entity at a time, for example reset a user's password or block an IP, and are launched manually by an analyst from the entity within an incident or from the entity page. Automation rules cannot call them. Stem signal: 'analysts should be able to pick a user in an incident and run the containment playbook on just that account'.
HOOK: Entity trigger = manual, per-object; never from an automation rule.

[92] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.11 (Create and configure Microsoft Sentinel playbooks)
FRONT: Consumption vs Standard Logic Apps for playbooks
BACK: #Consumption: multitenant, pay per run, template gallery supported | Standard: single-tenant, fixed price, VNet, many workflows per app; no playbook templates
WHY: Both plans can host playbooks. Consumption runs on shared infrastructure, charges per action, and is what the Sentinel playbook templates deploy. Standard runs single-tenant with predictable pricing, private networking, CI/CD and multiple workflows in one app, but only stateful workflows are supported in Sentinel, templates are not, and private-endpoint apps need an access restriction policy. Stem signal: 'the playbook must reach resources inside a virtual network' points to Standard.

[93] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.11 (Create and configure Microsoft Sentinel playbooks)
FRONT: Playbook authentication to Sentinel — managed identity
BACK: #System-assigned identity on the Logic App, granted a Sentinel role | Avoids stored credentials; alternative: service principal or user
WHY: The Sentinel connector inside a playbook must authenticate to update incidents. The recommended approach is a managed identity on the Logic App that is assigned a role such as Microsoft Sentinel Responder on the workspace, so no secret is stored. A service principal with a secret or a signed-in user account are alternatives. Stem signal: 'the playbook must update incidents without storing credentials'.

[94] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.11 (Create and configure Microsoft Sentinel playbooks)
FRONT: Role to run a playbook manually
BACK: #Microsoft Sentinel Playbook Operator | Plus Responder (or higher) to open the incident
WHY: Running a playbook on demand from an incident, alert or entity needs the Microsoft Sentinel Playbook Operator role on the playbook's resource group, and the analyst still needs at least Responder to reach the incident. Editing the Logic App itself requires Logic App Contributor instead. The exam separates these three: operate the playbook, edit the playbook, let Sentinel automate the playbook.

[95] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.11 (Create and configure Microsoft Sentinel playbooks)
FRONT: Role to create or edit a playbook
BACK: #Logic App Contributor (Consumption) on the resource group | Standard uses Logic Apps Standard Developer/Contributor roles
WHY: Designing or changing a playbook is a Logic Apps task, so the author needs Logic App Contributor on the resource group for Consumption apps, or the Logic Apps Standard Developer or Contributor roles for Standard apps. Attaching a playbook to an analytics or automation rule additionally needs Microsoft Sentinel Contributor. Stem signal: 'can run playbooks but cannot modify them' describes Playbook Operator without Logic App Contributor.

[96] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.11 (Create and configure Microsoft Sentinel playbooks)
FRONT: Playbook templates — where they come from
BACK: #Content hub solutions and the Automation page's Playbook templates tab | Deploy, customize, then attach to rules
WHY: Microsoft and partners publish ready-made playbooks as part of content hub solutions, visible on the Automation page under Playbook templates. Deploying a template creates a Consumption Logic App you then authorize and customize. Standard apps are not provisioned from templates. Stem signal: 'use a prebuilt playbook to post incidents to Teams' means install the solution and deploy its template.

[97] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.11 (Create and configure Microsoft Sentinel playbooks)
FRONT: Running a playbook from an incident manually
BACK: #Incident > Actions > Run playbook (incident-trigger playbooks only) | Entity playbooks run from the entity in the incident
WHY: An analyst can start an incident-trigger playbook from the incident page without any automation rule, which is useful for one-off enrichment or containment. The list shows only playbooks with the matching trigger, and the user needs Playbook Operator plus Sentinel permission to run on their behalf. Stem signal: 'allow analysts to decide per incident whether to isolate the device' is a manual run, not an automation rule.
HOOK: Manual run shows only playbooks whose trigger matches the object.

[98] cat=sentauto obj=1.1.11 (Create and configure Microsoft Sentinel playbooks)
FRONT: Playbook timing inside an automation rule
BACK: #Rule waits up to 2 minutes for the playbook before moving on | Long playbooks keep running, but later actions no longer wait
WHY: When an automation rule runs a playbook, it pauses for the result up to about two minutes; if the playbook finishes sooner the rule proceeds immediately, and if it runs longer the rule continues with its next action while the playbook completes in the background. This matters when a later action depends on something the playbook writes, so order short enrichment playbooks before dependent actions.

[99] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.1 (Specify Microsoft Sentinel roles)
FRONT: Microsoft Sentinel Reader
BACK: #View data, incidents, workbooks and recommendations | No changes to incidents or content
WHY: Reader is the least-privileged Sentinel role: it can open incidents, run queries over workspace data, view workbooks and SOC optimization recommendations, but cannot assign, close or comment on incidents or create rules. It is the right answer for auditors, managers and dashboards. Stem signal: 'must be able to view but not modify incidents'.

[100] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.1 (Specify Microsoft Sentinel roles)
FRONT: Microsoft Sentinel Responder
BACK: #Everything Reader has, plus managing incidents | Assign, change status, add comments; no rule or content changes
WHY: Responder is the analyst role: it adds incident management — assignment, status and severity changes, comments, classification — on top of read access, but cannot create or edit analytics rules, workbooks, connectors or automation. Guest users also need Directory Reader in Entra ID to be assignable. Stem signal: 'triage and close incidents without being able to change detections'.
HOOK: Responder responds; Contributor builds.

[101] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.1 (Specify Microsoft Sentinel roles)
FRONT: Microsoft Sentinel Contributor
BACK: #Responder rights plus create/edit rules, workbooks, connectors, content hub | Cannot run or edit playbooks on its own
WHY: Contributor is the engineering role: it installs solutions from the content hub, enables data connectors, creates analytics and automation rules, and attaches playbooks to rules. It does not by itself grant permission to execute or author Logic Apps, which need Playbook Operator or Logic App Contributor, and creating workbooks also needs Workbook Contributor on the resource group. Stem signal: 'create analytics rules' is at least Contributor.

[102] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.1 (Specify Microsoft Sentinel roles)
FRONT: Microsoft Sentinel Playbook Operator
BACK: #List, view and run playbooks manually | No editing of the Logic App
WHY: Playbook Operator exists so analysts can trigger response playbooks from an incident without being able to change them. Pair it with Responder for day-to-day SOC work. It does not let Sentinel run playbooks automatically — that is the Automation Contributor role on the service identity — and it does not permit designing workflows. Stem signal: 'run but not modify playbooks'.

[103] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.1 (Specify Microsoft Sentinel roles)
FRONT: Microsoft Sentinel Automation Contributor
BACK: #Lets the Sentinel service identity attach and run playbooks in automation rules | Assigned on the playbook resource group, never to people
WHY: Automation Contributor is granted to Sentinel's own identity on the resource group that holds playbooks, through the Manage playbook permissions pane. It is not meant for users. Without it, automation rules that include a Run playbook action fail even though analysts can run the same playbook manually. Stem signal: 'the automation rule's playbook action never executes'.

[104] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.1 (Specify Microsoft Sentinel roles)
FRONT: Log Analytics roles that matter for Sentinel
BACK: #Log Analytics Reader: query the workspace | Log Analytics Contributor: manage tables, retention, DCR links
WHY: Sentinel roles sit on top of Azure Monitor roles. Log Analytics Reader allows querying the workspace from Logs without any Sentinel UI rights; Log Analytics Contributor allows changing workspace configuration such as table plans, retention, custom tables and agent settings, which Sentinel Contributor alone does not include. Stem signal: 'change the retention of a table' needs a Log Analytics or workspace-level contributor role.

[105] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.1 (Specify Microsoft Sentinel roles)
FRONT: Roles needed to create and delete workbooks
BACK: #Microsoft Sentinel Contributor plus Workbook Contributor | Viewing needs Workbook Reader
WHY: Workbooks are Azure resources in the workspace's resource group, so saving or deleting one requires Workbook Contributor there in addition to Sentinel Contributor; Workbook Reader is enough to open saved workbooks. The exam uses this to test that Sentinel roles do not automatically carry every Azure resource permission. Stem signal: 'can view workbooks but cannot save changes'.

[106] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.2 (Manage data retention for XDR and Microsoft Sentinel tables, including Analytics, Data lake, and XDR tiers)
FRONT: Analytics retention vs total retention
BACK: #Analytics (interactive): hot, queryable, 30 days to 2 years | Total: up to 12 years; the difference is long-term (data lake) retention
WHY: Every table has two numbers. Analytics retention is how long data stays in the hot analytics tier for real-time queries, alerting and hunting. Total retention is how long it exists at all, with the remainder beyond the analytics window held cheaply in the data lake. Setting analytics 90 and total 365 gives 90 hot days and 275 lake days. Stem signal: 'retain for seven years for compliance but only search interactively for 90 days'.
HOOK: Analytics = hot window; total = everything, lake fills the gap.

[107] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.2 (Manage data retention for XDR and Microsoft Sentinel tables, including Analytics, Data lake, and XDR tiers)
FRONT: Analytics tier — what it supports
BACK: #Analytics rules, hunting, workbooks, watchlists, search and summary rules | Default 30 days; Sentinel solution tables free to 90 days
WHY: The analytics tier is the classic Log Analytics tier for Sentinel: full KQL, scheduled and NRT rules, workbooks, watchlists, parsers, restore and export all work here. Retention defaults to 30 days and can be raised to two years at a prorated charge, with many Sentinel solution tables eligible for 90 days at no extra cost. Any detection requirement in a stem implies the data must be in this tier.

[108] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.2 (Manage data retention for XDR and Microsoft Sentinel tables, including Analytics, Data lake, and XDR tiers)
FRONT: Data lake tier — what it supports
BACK: #Long-term storage up to 12 years; KQL jobs, notebooks, search, summary rules | No real-time analytics rules or hunting
WHY: The data lake tier stores data cheaply for as long as twelve years and is queried through scheduled or one-time KQL jobs, Spark notebooks and search jobs, with results promotable back to the analytics tier. Moving a table to lake-only stops alerting, advanced hunting, analytics rules and custom detections on it. Stem signal: 'keep firewall logs for six years at minimum cost; they are rarely queried'.

[109] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.2 (Manage data retention for XDR and Microsoft Sentinel tables, including Analytics, Data lake, and XDR tiers)
FRONT: Defender XDR default retention in the Defender portal
BACK: #30 days of advanced hunting data included in the XDR license | Extend by ingesting the tables into the analytics or data lake tier
WHY: Defender XDR advanced hunting tables such as DeviceProcessEvents are kept for 30 days by default with no ingestion charge. On the Tables page you can extend a table into the analytics tier (31 to 90 days are storage-free though ingestion is billed) or into the data lake for up to twelve years. Stem signal: 'hunt across six months of endpoint process events' cannot be met with the XDR default alone.
HOOK: XDR gives 30 days; Sentinel tiers buy the rest.

[110] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.2 (Manage data retention for XDR and Microsoft Sentinel tables, including Analytics, Data lake, and XDR tiers)
FRONT: Where do you change a table's tier and retention?
BACK: #Defender portal: Microsoft Sentinel > Configuration > Tables | Analytics tier or Data lake tier, with retention values per table
WHY: Table-level settings live on the Tables page under Sentinel configuration in the Defender portal. For each table you pick the tier and set analytics retention (30 days to 2 years) and total retention (up to 12 years), or choose Data lake tier only. Some XDR and solution tables must remain analytics-tier because Microsoft services depend on them. Shortening retention gives a 30-day grace period before data is deleted.

[111] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.2 (Manage data retention for XDR and Microsoft Sentinel tables, including Analytics, Data lake, and XDR tiers)
FRONT: Mirroring from the analytics tier to the data lake
BACK: #Analytics-tier data is automatically copied to the lake for the same retention | Extra lake retention beyond that is billed as storage
WHY: Everything ingested into the analytics tier is mirrored into the data lake, so jobs and notebooks can read the same data without a second ingestion. Extending total retention beyond the analytics window costs only lake storage. This single-copy model is why the exam calls the lake 'cost-effective long-term retention' rather than an archive you must export to.

[112] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.2 (Manage data retention for XDR and Microsoft Sentinel tables, including Analytics, Data lake, and XDR tiers)
FRONT: Legacy table plans: Analytics, Basic, Auxiliary
BACK: #Analytics: full features; Basic: cheap ingestion, 30-day fixed interactive; Auxiliary: lowest cost | Basic and Auxiliary map onto the data lake model
WHY: Log Analytics offers three plans. Analytics is full-featured with 4 to 730 days interactive retention. Basic has a fixed 30-day interactive window and limited KQL, with total retention up to twelve years via search jobs. Auxiliary is the cheapest, with no interactive window but queryable across its retention. In the Defender portal these lower-cost plans surface as the data lake tier. Stem signal: 'reduce ingestion cost for verbose logs' means Basic/Auxiliary or lake.

[113] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.3 (Create and configure Microsoft Sentinel workbooks)
FRONT: Sentinel workbooks — what they are
BACK: #Interactive KQL-driven dashboards built on Azure Monitor workbooks | Saved as JSON resources in the workspace resource group
WHY: Workbooks render KQL results as tables, charts, tiles and grids with parameters and time-range controls, and support auto-refresh from five minutes to a day. Each saved workbook is an Azure resource stored as JSON next to the workspace, visible in both the Defender portal and, until retirement, the Azure portal. Stem signal: 'visualize sign-in failures by country for the SOC lead' is a workbook, not an analytics rule.

[114] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.3 (Create and configure Microsoft Sentinel workbooks)
FRONT: Workbook templates vs saved workbooks
BACK: #Templates tab: from content hub, cannot be deleted | My workbooks tab: saved copies you can edit and delete
WHY: Installing a solution from the content hub adds workbook templates. Opening a template and saving it creates a workbook in My workbooks that you own, can customize and can delete; the template itself stays untouched. Templates list the data types they need, so check the connector is streaming before relying on one. Stem signal: 'the workbook shows no data' usually means the required table is empty.
HOOK: Template = blueprint; saved = your copy.

[115] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.3 (Create and configure Microsoft Sentinel workbooks)
FRONT: Workbook parameters and time range
BACK: #Parameters drive queries (time range, workspace, drop-downs) | Time range picker filters every query that references it
WHY: Parameters make one workbook serve many questions: a time range parameter feeds every query, a drop-down of hosts or users filters sections, and a workspace parameter lets the same workbook span several workspaces. Queries reference parameters by name inside braces. Stem signal: 'let analysts choose the time window and the device group without editing the query'.

[116] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.3 (Create and configure Microsoft Sentinel workbooks)
FRONT: Workbook queries — ASIM recommendation
BACK: #Prefer ASIM parsers over raw tables for multi-source visuals | One workbook then covers any normalized source
WHY: Microsoft recommends building workbook queries on Advanced Security Information Model parsers such as imNetworkSession rather than vendor-specific tables, so adding a new firewall does not require rewriting the dashboard. The same advice applies to analytics rules. Stem signal: 'a single network workbook for Palo Alto, Fortinet and Azure Firewall data'.

[117] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.4 (Optimize the Microsoft Sentinel platform, including SOC optimization recommendations)
FRONT: SOC optimization — the two recommendation families
BACK: #Coverage: threat-based, AI MITRE ATT&CK, risk-based gaps | Data value: unused or low-value ingestion and better plans
WHY: SOC optimization analyzes the workspace daily and produces recommendations in two groups. Coverage recommendations point out detections you could enable for specific threats, MITRE techniques or business risks. Data value recommendations highlight tables you pay to ingest but never query or detect on, and suggest cheaper plans or useful content for them. Stem signal: 'reduce cost of unused logs' is data value; 'close ransomware detection gaps' is coverage.
HOOK: Coverage = detect more; data value = pay less.

[118] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.4 (Optimize the Microsoft Sentinel platform, including SOC optimization recommendations)
FRONT: SOC optimization — statuses and refresh
BACK: #Active, In progress, Completed, Dismissed | Recalculated every 24 hours
WHY: Each recommendation starts Active, can be marked In progress while a team works on it, becomes Completed when its actions are done (or automatically when the environment changes), and can be Dismissed to hide it. The engine recomputes every day, and reactivated items take up to an hour to refresh. The page lives under SOC optimization in the Defender portal and shows coverage percentages and 90-day ingestion.

[119] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.4 (Optimize the Microsoft Sentinel platform, including SOC optimization recommendations)
FRONT: Workspace manager — central content distribution
BACK: #Publish analytics rules, automation rules, hunting queries, workbooks, parsers to member workspaces | Needs Contributor on central and member; playbooks excluded
WHY: Workspace manager turns one workspace into a central publisher that pushes read-only copies of content to member workspaces, grouped by business logic, including across tenants through Azure Lighthouse. Supported content covers analytics and automation rules, saved searches and parsers, hunting queries and workbooks, but not playbooks. Stem signal: an MSSP or multi-region enterprise that must keep detections consistent across many workspaces.
HOOK: Workspace manager publishes rules, not playbooks.

[120] cat=sentplat obj=1.2.4 (Optimize the Microsoft Sentinel platform, including SOC optimization recommendations)
FRONT: Unified SecOps: Sentinel in the Defender portal
BACK: #Onboard a workspace to get one incident queue, cross-domain correlation, unified hunting | Azure portal access ends after 31 March 2027
WHY: Onboarding a Sentinel workspace to the Defender portal merges SIEM incidents with Defender XDR incidents, applies XDR correlation and attack-story views, and exposes one advanced hunting experience across SIEM, XDR and lake data. Only the primary workspace is correlated with Defender alerts; secondary workspaces keep separate incident creation. Fusion and Microsoft incident creation rules are not used once onboarded. Stem signal: 'single queue for Sentinel and Defender incidents'.

[121] cat=ingest obj=1.3.1 (Select data connectors based on data source requirements, including Windows logs and security events)
FRONT: Service-to-service (native) connectors
BACK: #Microsoft or cloud services stream directly into the workspace | Examples: Defender XDR, Microsoft 365, Azure Activity, Entra ID, AWS S3
WHY: Native connectors use the source service's own export path, often a diagnostic setting or an API Microsoft operates, so there is nothing to install. Configuration is mostly permissions and ticking which log types to send. The exam expects you to pick these for Microsoft sources and to know the table each lands in, for example OfficeActivity for Microsoft 365 and SigninLogs for Entra ID.

[122] cat=ingest obj=1.3.1 (Select data connectors based on data source requirements, including Windows logs and security events)
FRONT: Agent-based connectors via Azure Monitor Agent
BACK: #AMA on the machine or log forwarder, governed by a DCR | Windows Security Events, Windows Forwarded Events, Syslog, CEF, custom text logs
WHY: When the data lives on a machine — Windows event logs, Linux syslog, a CEF stream from appliances, or a text file — the Azure Monitor Agent collects it according to a data collection rule that says what to gather and which workspace receives it. Non-Azure machines must be Azure Arc-enabled so the DCR can target them. Stem signal: 'on-premises servers', 'firewall logs', 'install an agent'.
HOOK: On a box? AMA + DCR. In a cloud service? Native connector.

[123] cat=ingest obj=1.3.1 (Select data connectors based on data source requirements, including Windows logs and security events)
FRONT: Codeless Connector Framework (CCF) connectors
BACK: #Microsoft-hosted polling or push connectors for SaaS APIs | No Function App or agent to maintain
WHY: CCF connectors are defined declaratively and run inside Sentinel, either polling a vendor's REST API on a schedule or accepting pushed events through a data collection endpoint. They replace many older Azure Functions connectors and cost nothing extra to host. Stem signal: 'ingest from a SaaS platform's API without deploying Azure resources' points to CCF where one exists.

[124] cat=ingest obj=1.3.1 (Select data connectors based on data source requirements, including Windows logs and security events)
FRONT: Azure Functions-based connectors
BACK: #A Function App you deploy polls the vendor API and writes to a _CL table | Customer pays for and maintains the Function App
WHY: Some third-party connectors deploy an Azure Function App into your subscription that calls the vendor's API on a timer and posts results to a custom table through the ingestion API. You own the credentials, scaling and cost. Compared with CCF, this is the heavier option; the exam may ask which connector type incurs extra Azure resource charges, and this is it.

[125] cat=ingest obj=1.3.1 (Select data connectors based on data source requirements, including Windows logs and security events)
FRONT: Which Windows connector for domain controllers' security events?
BACK: #Windows Security Events via AMA → SecurityEvent table | Filtered by DCR; built-in rules target SecurityEvent
WHY: For member servers and domain controllers you can reach with an agent, Windows Security Events via AMA is the primary connector: install AMA (Arc for on-prem), create a DCR with an event filter, and data lands in SecurityEvent where the built-in analytics rules expect it. Choose Windows Forwarded Events only when events are already centralized with WEF. Stem signal: 'use existing analytics rule templates for Windows security events'.

[126] cat=ingest obj=1.3.2 (Configure collection of Windows Security events by using Windows Security Events via AMA, including data collection rules)
FRONT: Data collection rule (DCR) — what it defines
BACK: #What AMA collects (event filters) and where it lands (workspace, table) | Reusable across many machines; attached to resources
WHY: A DCR is the configuration object the Azure Monitor Agent downloads: data sources, filters such as XPath for Windows events or facilities for syslog, optional transformations, and the destination workspace. One rule can be associated with hundreds of machines, which is why filtering at the source in the DCR is the cost lever the exam highlights. Stem signal: 'collect only events 4624 and 4688 from the servers'.

[127] cat=ingest obj=1.3.2 (Configure collection of Windows Security events by using Windows Security Events via AMA, including data collection rules)
FRONT: Security event collection levels in the DCR
BACK: #All security events, Common, Minimal, Custom | Custom uses XPath queries
WHY: The Windows Security Events via AMA connector offers four presets. All events collects the full Security log. Common is the standard set for typical SOC monitoring. Minimal keeps only a small essential set to save cost. Custom lets you write XPath expressions for exactly the IDs you need, up to 20 expressions per box. Stem signal: a cost or specific-event-ID requirement decides between Minimal and Custom.

[128] cat=ingest obj=1.3.2 (Configure collection of Windows Security events by using Windows Security Events via AMA, including data collection rules)
FRONT: XPath filter for a DCR — the shape
BACK: #Channel!*[System[(EventID=4624) or (EventID=4688)]] | Test locally with Get-WinEvent -FilterXPath
KQL:
    Security!*[System[(EventID=4624) or (EventID=4688)]]
    
    Get-WinEvent -LogName Security -FilterXPath '*[System[EventID=4688]]' -MaxEvents 5
WHY: A custom DCR filter names the channel, then an XPath predicate on the event's System properties, most often EventID, joined with or. Because a bad expression silently collects nothing, Microsoft suggests validating the predicate on a machine with Get-WinEvent before saving. Exam stems may show an XPath string and ask which events it collects, or ask you to pick the expression that limits ingestion to specific IDs.

[129] cat=ingest obj=1.3.2 (Configure collection of Windows Security events by using Windows Security Events via AMA, including data collection rules)
FRONT: Prerequisites to target a non-Azure server with a DCR
BACK: #Azure Arc Connected Machine agent on the server | Then AMA is deployed and the DCR associated
WHY: DCRs are associated with Azure resources, so a physical or on-premises server must first be projected into Azure through Azure Arc. Once Arc-enabled, it appears in the connector's Resources picker, AMA is installed as an extension, and the DCR applies. Stem signal: 'the on-premises server does not appear when selecting resources for the data collection rule' — it is not Arc-enabled.
HOOK: Not in Azure? Arc first, then AMA.

[130] cat=ingest obj=1.3.3 (Plan and configure collection of Windows Security events by using Windows Event Forwarding (WEF))
FRONT: Windows Event Forwarding (WEF) — the model
BACK: #Source computers forward events to a Windows Event Collector server | Events land in the collector's ForwardedEvents log
WHY: WEF uses built-in Windows subscriptions so that many machines push or are pulled for events to one or more collector servers, where they arrive in the ForwardedEvents channel. Only the collector needs the Azure Monitor Agent. It suits environments where installing an agent on every host is impractical or where a collector tier already exists. Stem signal: 'minimize agents' or 'existing event collector'.

[131] cat=ingest obj=1.3.3 (Plan and configure collection of Windows Security events by using Windows Event Forwarding (WEF))
FRONT: Windows Forwarded Events connector — the table
BACK: #AMA on the collector reads ForwardedEvents into WindowsEvent | Not SecurityEvent, so built-in rules need adapting or ASIM parsers
WHY: The Windows Forwarded Events connector ingests the collector's ForwardedEvents channel through a DCR into the WindowsEvent table. Because most Microsoft analytics rule templates query SecurityEvent, you must either rewrite them for WindowsEvent, install ASIM parsers, or collect directly with Windows Security Events via AMA instead. Exam stems that pair WEF with 'built-in rules do not fire' are testing exactly this table mismatch.
HOOK: WEF → WindowsEvent; direct AMA → SecurityEvent.

[132] cat=ingest obj=1.3.3 (Plan and configure collection of Windows Security events by using Windows Event Forwarding (WEF))
FRONT: When to prefer WEF over per-host AMA
BACK: #Many hosts, agent restrictions, or an existing collector tier | Trade-off: single table change and one extra hop
WHY: Planning questions compare the two Windows paths. Per-host AMA gives SecurityEvent compatibility and per-machine DCR filtering but requires an agent (and Arc) on every server. WEF concentrates collection on a few collectors, reduces agents and works well with existing Windows subscriptions, but delivers into WindowsEvent and adds the collector as a dependency. Pick based on the stem's constraints about agents and rule reuse.

[133] cat=ingest obj=1.3.4 (Plan and configure Syslog via AMA and Common Event Format (CEF) via AMA connectors)
FRONT: Syslog via AMA — the pipeline
BACK: #Devices → Linux log forwarder (rsyslog/syslog-ng) on port 514 → AMA → Syslog table | DCR selects facilities and minimum level
WHY: Syslog via AMA collects standard syslog from Linux hosts and network devices. A designated Linux VM runs rsyslog or syslog-ng listening on TCP/UDP 514, the AMA on that VM applies a DCR that chooses facilities (such as local0–local7, auth) and the lowest severity to keep, and records arrive in the Syslog table. Non-Azure forwarders need Azure Arc. Stem signal: 'collect auth logs from Linux servers'.

[134] cat=ingest obj=1.3.4 (Plan and configure Syslog via AMA and Common Event Format (CEF) via AMA connectors)
FRONT: CEF via AMA — the pipeline
BACK: #Appliances send CEF over syslog → forwarder on 514 → AMA → CommonSecurityLog | Same forwarder VM can carry both, with distinct facilities
WHY: Common Event Format is a structured key-value syslog payload used by firewalls, proxies and security appliances. CEF via AMA uses the same Linux forwarder and port 514 but parses messages into the CommonSecurityLog table with DeviceVendor, DeviceProduct and typed fields. The forwarder is prepared with the Forwarder_AMA_installer.py script. Stem signal: 'Palo Alto', 'Fortinet' or 'CEF' in the scenario.
HOOK: CEF → CommonSecurityLog; plain syslog → Syslog.

[135] cat=ingest obj=1.3.4 (Plan and configure Syslog via AMA and Common Event Format (CEF) via AMA connectors)
FRONT: Avoiding duplicate ingestion with Syslog and CEF on one forwarder
BACK: #Use different facilities for CEF and for plain syslog in the two DCRs | Same facility in both = every message ingested twice
WHY: Because both connectors read the same rsyslog stream on one forwarder, a facility selected in the CEF DCR and also in the Syslog DCR causes each message to be stored in both CommonSecurityLog and Syslog, doubling cost. The fix is to send CEF sources to a dedicated facility (for example local4) and exclude it from the Syslog DCR. Stem signal: 'firewall events appear in two tables'.

[136] cat=ingest obj=1.3.4 (Plan and configure Syslog via AMA and Common Event Format (CEF) via AMA connectors)
FRONT: Syslog DCR minimum log level — how it filters
BACK: #Choosing a level keeps that level and everything more severe | LOG_ERR keeps ERR, CRIT, ALERT, EMERG
WHY: For each facility in a Syslog DCR you choose the minimum severity. Syslog severities run from debug up to emergency; picking Error collects Error, Critical, Alert and Emergency but drops Warning, Notice, Info and Debug. This is the main cost control for chatty Linux hosts. Stem signal: 'reduce syslog volume but keep anything that indicates a failure'.

[137] cat=ingest obj=1.3.5 (Configure collection of Azure activity logs by using Azure Policy and resource diagnostic settings)
FRONT: Azure Activity connector — how it is wired today
BACK: #Azure Policy assigns a subscription-scope diagnostic setting | Policy: Configure Azure Activity logs to stream to specified Log Analytics workspace
WHY: The current Azure Activity connector uses an Azure Policy definition that creates a diagnostic setting on each subscription in scope to stream the activity log into the workspace's AzureActivity table. Assign the policy at a management group or subscription, then run a remediation task so existing subscriptions are configured. The old per-subscription legacy method is retired. Stem signal: 'ensure all current and future subscriptions send activity logs'.
HOOK: Activity logs scale with Policy, not clicks.

[138] cat=ingest obj=1.3.5 (Configure collection of Azure activity logs by using Azure Policy and resource diagnostic settings)
FRONT: Remediation task — why it is needed with the Activity policy
BACK: #Policy only auto-applies to new or changed resources | Remediation configures the subscriptions that already exist
WHY: A deployIfNotExists policy evaluates resources at creation or update, so subscriptions that existed before the assignment stay non-compliant until a remediation task runs and deploys the diagnostic setting. Forgetting the task is the classic reason 'the AzureActivity table is empty for older subscriptions' in exam scenarios.

[139] cat=ingest obj=1.3.5 (Configure collection of Azure activity logs by using Azure Policy and resource diagnostic settings)
FRONT: Resource diagnostic settings for Azure services
BACK: #Per-resource setting that sends logs/metrics to a workspace | Key Vault, NSG flow, Firewall, SQL etc. use their own tables
WHY: Beyond subscription activity, individual Azure resources such as Key Vault, Azure Firewall or Azure SQL emit resource logs selected in that resource's Diagnostic settings blade and routed to Log Analytics, each into a resource-specific table. Sentinel's Azure connectors in the content hub mostly wrap these settings, and Azure Policy can enforce them at scale. Stem signal: 'collect audit logs from Key Vault' is a diagnostic setting, not an agent.

[140] cat=ingest obj=1.3.5 (Configure collection of Azure activity logs by using Azure Policy and resource diagnostic settings)
FRONT: Microsoft Entra ID connector — log types and tables
BACK: #Sign-in → SigninLogs, Audit → AuditLogs, non-interactive → AADNonInteractiveUserSignInLogs | Also service principal, managed identity, provisioning, risk logs
WHY: The Entra ID connector creates a tenant-level diagnostic setting and lets you tick each log category. Interactive sign-ins populate SigninLogs, directory changes populate AuditLogs, and separate tables hold non-interactive, service principal, managed identity and AD FS sign-ins plus provisioning and ID Protection risk logs. Sign-in logs need a P1 or P2 license. Stem signal: 'detect legacy authentication' is SigninLogs; 'who added a global admin' is AuditLogs.
HOOK: Sign-in = who logged on; Audit = who changed the directory.

[141] cat=ingest obj=1.3.6 (Ingest threat indicators into Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Threat intelligence upload API
BACK: #Recommended path: push STIX objects straight to the workspace | No connector needed; app registration with workspace-scoped permission
WHY: The upload API accepts STIX 2.1 objects — indicators, threat actors, attack patterns, identities, relationships — from a threat intelligence platform or script and writes them into the workspace. It replaces the deprecated Graph tiIndicators-based Threat Intelligence Platforms connector and supports more than plain indicators. Stem signal: 'integrate our TIP' or 'import indicators from a custom feed programmatically'.

[142] cat=ingest obj=1.3.6 (Ingest threat indicators into Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Threat Intelligence – TAXII connector
BACK: #Built-in TAXII 2.0/2.1 client polls a server's collection | Needs API root URL and collection ID
WHY: For feeds published over the TAXII protocol, this connector lets Sentinel act as the client: supply the server's API root, the collection ID, credentials and a polling interval, and indicators flow in on schedule. Stem signal: 'the ISAC publishes indicators via TAXII'. Compare with the upload API, where your system pushes, and with the Defender Threat Intelligence connector, which brings Microsoft's own feed.

[143] cat=ingest obj=1.3.6 (Ingest threat indicators into Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Microsoft Defender Threat Intelligence connector
BACK: #Brings Microsoft's indicator feed into the workspace | Standard (open-source and public IOCs) vs Premium (Microsoft IOCs)
WHY: This connector streams indicators curated by Microsoft Defender Threat Intelligence into the workspace with a single enable. The standard version supplies public and OSINT indicators free; the premium version adds Microsoft-sourced and enriched indicators under a license. It pairs with the Threat Intelligence analytics rule and the TI workbook. Stem signal: 'use Microsoft-provided indicators without running our own feed'.

[144] cat=ingest obj=1.3.6 (Ingest threat indicators into Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Threat intelligence tables — new vs legacy
BACK: #ThreatIntelIndicators and ThreatIntelObjects (STIX schema) | ThreatIntelligenceIndicator is legacy and retired
WHY: Sentinel moved threat intelligence storage to two STIX-shaped tables: ThreatIntelIndicators for indicators and ThreatIntelObjects for actors, attack patterns, identities and relationships. The older ThreatIntelligenceIndicator table was deprecated in 2025, so rules, workbooks and queries must reference the new tables. Exam stems that still mention the legacy table are testing whether you know the migration.
HOOK: Plural + Objects = current; singular = legacy.

[145] cat=ingest obj=1.3.6 (Ingest threat indicators into Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: TI ingestion rules
BACK: #Filter or modify indicators before storage: drop low confidence, extend validity, tag | Apply to connector-ingested TI; take ~15 minutes
WHY: Ingestion rules run on indicators arriving through connectors and let you discard stale or low-confidence entries, extend expiry on trusted sources, or add tags that match your naming scheme. Rules evaluate in order until a delete action. They are managed in the Intel management area of the Defender portal. Stem signal: 'reduce false positives from a noisy feed before indicators reach matching rules'.

[146] cat=ingest obj=1.3.7 (Create custom log tables in the workspace to store ingested data)
FRONT: Custom log tables — the _CL suffix
BACK: #Every custom table name ends in _CL (e.g. FabrikamApp_CL) | Portal adds it; API/CLI must include it
WHY: Custom tables in Log Analytics are identified by the _CL suffix, which the portal appends automatically and which must be part of the stream name in a DCR when you create tables through the API. Avoid sensitive terms in names because table names appear in billing. Stem signal: a query against a table ending in _CL means custom-ingested data, often from a Function App or the ingestion API.

[147] cat=ingest obj=1.3.7 (Create custom log tables in the workspace to store ingested data)
FRONT: Creating a DCR-based custom table in the portal
BACK: #Workspace > Tables > Create > New custom log (DCR-based) | Pick plan, DCR and DCE, upload sample JSON, define transformation
WHY: The modern custom-table wizard asks for a name and plan, a data collection rule and endpoint, then a JSON sample with at least one record so the schema can be inferred. You can add a KQL transformation before saving. The resulting table can be fed through the Logs ingestion API or AMA custom text logs. Stem signal: 'store JSON events from an in-house application in a dedicated table'.

[148] cat=ingest obj=1.3.7 (Create custom log tables in the workspace to store ingested data)
FRONT: TimeGenerated requirement for custom tables
BACK: #Every table must have a TimeGenerated datetime column | Transformation can derive it if the source lacks one
KQL:
    source
    | extend TimeGenerated = todatetime(eventTime)
    | project-away eventTime
WHY: Log Analytics indexes and retains data on TimeGenerated, so a custom table must include it. If the incoming records only have a field such as eventTime, the DCR transformation extends TimeGenerated from it, otherwise ingestion time is used. Exam stems that show a transformKql snippet with extend TimeGenerated are illustrating this requirement.

[149] cat=ingest obj=1.3.7 (Create custom log tables in the workspace to store ingested data)
FRONT: Logs ingestion API — prerequisites
BACK: #DCE + DCR, an Entra app, and Monitoring Metrics Publisher on the DCR/DCE | POST JSON to the endpoint; DCR stream maps to table
WHY: To push data from your own code, you register an Entra application, create a data collection endpoint and a DCR whose stream declaration matches your JSON, and grant the app the Monitoring Metrics Publisher role. Posts go to the DCE URL with the DCR immutable ID and stream name. Schema changes to the table must be mirrored in the DCR by hand. Stem signal: 'send events from a custom application to Sentinel securely'.

[150] cat=ingest obj=1.3.7 (Create custom log tables in the workspace to store ingested data)
FRONT: DCR transformations — what they do
BACK: #KQL applied to each record before it is stored | Filter, drop columns, mask data, split to tables
KQL:
    source
    | where Level != "Information"
    | project-away RawPayload
WHY: A transformation is a KQL statement over the pseudo-table source inside a DCR. It can drop noisy rows, remove or mask fields, parse strings into columns, or route data to a different table, all before billing for ingestion. Transformations apply to custom tables and to many standard tables via workspace DCRs. Stem signal: 'exclude informational events before ingestion' or 'remove personal data at collection time'.

[151] cat=ingest obj=1.3.1 (Select data connectors based on data source requirements, including Windows logs and security events)
FRONT: Defender XDR connector — incidents and raw events
BACK: #Incidents/alerts synced bidirectionally into SecurityIncident/SecurityAlert | Optional raw tables: Device*, Email*, Identity*, CloudApp*, Alert*
WHY: The Defender XDR connector does two jobs: it mirrors Defender incidents and alerts into Sentinel with two-way status sync, and it can stream the advanced hunting event tables so you keep them longer and correlate in KQL. Connecting incidents disables the individual Defender product connectors and you should turn off their Microsoft incident creation rules to avoid duplicates. Vulnerability management tables are not included.
HOOK: XDR connector: one incident sync, many raw tables, no TVM.

[152] cat=ingest obj=1.3.1 (Select data connectors based on data source requirements, including Windows logs and security events)
FRONT: Microsoft 365 connector — the table
BACK: #Exchange, SharePoint, Teams audit activity → OfficeActivity | Select each workload when enabling
WHY: The Microsoft 365 (formerly Office 365) connector pulls unified audit records for Exchange Online, SharePoint and OneDrive, and Teams into the OfficeActivity table, with each workload chosen separately when you enable it. It is a service-to-service connector requiring tenant-level security admin permissions. Stem signal: 'detect mass file downloads from SharePoint' or 'mailbox forwarding rules' both start in OfficeActivity.

[153] cat=detect obj=1.4.1 (Create custom detection rules by using Advanced Hunting in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Custom detection rule — what it is
BACK: #An advanced hunting query that runs on a schedule and raises alerts | Can trigger response actions on devices, users, files, emails
WHY: In Defender XDR you turn a working advanced hunting query into a custom detection by saving it with a frequency, alert details and optional automated actions. Each run that returns rows creates alerts and incidents just like built-in detections. Stem signal: 'alert whenever this KQL returns results in Defender' — not a Sentinel analytics rule, which is the equivalent on the SIEM side.
HOOK: Custom detection = hunting query with a schedule and a verdict.

[154] cat=detect obj=1.4.1 (Create custom detection rules by using Advanced Hunting in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Columns a custom detection query must return
BACK: #Timestamp and ReportId, plus at least one entity column | Defender for Endpoint tables: DeviceId and ReportId
KQL:
    DeviceProcessEvents
    | where FileName =~ "mimikatz.exe"
    | project Timestamp, ReportId, DeviceId, AccountName
WHY: The wizard rejects a query that lacks the columns it needs to anchor an alert: Timestamp (or TimeGenerated) for the alert time, ReportId to point at the triggering event, and an entity identifier such as DeviceId, AccountObjectId, AccountSid, RecipientEmailAddress or SenderFromAddress so impacted assets can be populated. Summarized queries typically keep them with arg_max. Stem signal: 'the query cannot be saved as a detection' with a project that dropped ReportId.

[155] cat=detect obj=1.4.1 (Create custom detection rules by using Advanced Hunting in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Custom detection frequency options
BACK: #Every 24 hours, 12 hours, 3 hours, every hour, or Continuous (NRT) | Defender lookback: 30d, 48h, 12h, 4h respectively
WHY: When saving a detection you choose how often it runs; each interval has a matching lookback window over Defender data, from 30 days for a daily rule down to 4 hours for an hourly one. Continuous runs in near real time against data as it is ingested. Lookback longer than frequency can produce duplicate hits, which the engine de-duplicates by entities and details. Stem signal: 'detect within minutes' means Continuous.

[156] cat=detect obj=1.4.1 (Create custom detection rules by using Advanced Hunting in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Continuous (NRT) frequency — query constraints
BACK: #Single table, supported operators only, no join/union/externaldata, no comments | Only certain tables such as DeviceEvents, EmailEvents, IdentityLogonEvents
KQL:
    // not NRT-eligible: two tables
    DeviceProcessEvents
    | join kind=inner DeviceNetworkEvents on DeviceId
WHY: Continuous custom detections run as the data streams in, so the query must be simple: one table from the supported list, only operators the streaming engine understands, and no join, union, externaldata or comment lines. If a stem shows a query with a join and asks why Continuous is unavailable, that is the reason; fall back to hourly.

[157] cat=detect obj=1.4.1 (Create custom detection rules by using Advanced Hunting in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Custom detection alert details
BACK: #Title, severity, category, MITRE techniques, description, recommended actions | Title/description can embed columns with {{ColumnName}}
WHY: Every custom detection carries the metadata the SOC sees on the alert: a unique title that may include dynamic column values, a severity, a category such as Credential access, mapped ATT&CK techniques, a description and recommended actions, plus up to 20 custom details. These fields also flow into Sentinel if the XDR connector is on. Stem signal: 'the alert title must show the user name' means a dynamic title.

[158] cat=detect obj=1.4.1 (Create custom detection rules by using Advanced Hunting in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Custom detection automated actions
BACK: #Devices: isolate, collect package, AV scan, investigate, restrict apps | Users: mark compromised, disable, reset password; emails: move or delete; files: allow/block, quarantine
WHY: Response actions attach to the entity columns the query returns: device actions need DeviceId, user actions need an account identifier, email actions need NetworkMessageId and RecipientEmailAddress, file actions need a hash. Actions run automatically each time the rule fires, so test scope carefully. Stem signal: 'automatically isolate any device that runs this binary' is a custom detection with Isolate device.

[159] cat=detect obj=1.4.2 (Manage custom detection rules in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Managing custom detection rules
BACK: #Custom detection rules page: edit, turn on/off, run now, delete, view triggered alerts | Needs Manage security settings (Security Administrator)
WHY: The Custom detection rules page lists every rule with its last run, status and alert count. From there you open a rule to edit the query or actions, toggle it off during tuning, run it immediately to test, delete it, or jump to the alerts it generated. Managing rules requires the Security settings (manage) permission or Security Administrator; Security Operators need the manage security settings grant under RBAC.

[160] cat=detect obj=1.4.2 (Manage custom detection rules in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Custom detection rule scope — device groups
BACK: #Rules can be limited to selected device groups | Users only see rules for groups they can access
WHY: When a query touches device data you can restrict the detection to specific device groups so alerts and actions apply only there, which also keeps RBAC-scoped analysts from seeing or editing rules outside their groups. Stem signal: 'the rule must only act on the Finance workstations' or 'the regional team cannot find the rule' — both are scope questions, not query questions.

[161] cat=detect obj=1.4.2 (Manage custom detection rules in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Custom detection vs Sentinel analytics rule
BACK: #Custom detection: Defender XDR tables, Defender actions, Defender incidents | Analytics rule: any workspace table, Sentinel incidents, playbooks
WHY: Both turn KQL into alerts. A custom detection lives in the Defender portal, queries Defender XDR hunting tables (and, in unified SecOps, Sentinel tables), and can fire Defender response actions. A Sentinel analytics rule runs in the workspace, supports any ingested table, richer scheduling and grouping, and drives automation rules and playbooks. The stem's data source and desired response pick the tool.

[162] cat=detect obj=1.4.3 (Configure and manage analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel SIEM, including scheduled, near-real time (NRT), threat intelligence, and machine learning)
FRONT: Analytics rule type: Scheduled
BACK: #KQL runs on an interval over a lookback window; threshold decides alerts | Most common and most configurable type
WHY: Scheduled rules are the workhorse: a query, a frequency from 5 minutes to 14 days, a lookback up to 14 days, and a threshold on the number of results. They support entity mapping, custom details, dynamic alert details, event grouping, alert-to-incident grouping and suppression. Content hub templates are mostly scheduled rules. Stem signal: a KQL detection that does not need second-level latency.

[163] cat=detect obj=1.4.3 (Configure and manage analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel SIEM, including scheduled, near-real time (NRT), threat intelligence, and machine learning)
FRONT: Analytics rule type: Near-real-time (NRT)
BACK: #Runs every minute on just-ingested data with a 2-minute built-in delay | Max 50 per workspace; sources must ingest in under 12 hours
WHY: NRT rules are scheduled rules with a fixed one-minute cadence, keyed on ingestion time rather than TimeGenerated so they catch events as they land. Limits still apply: no more than 50 per customer, log sources whose ingestion delay is under 12 hours, and event grouping capped at 30 single-event alerts per run. Multi-table and cross-workspace queries are now allowed. Stem signal: 'alert within a minute or two'.
HOOK: NRT: every minute, 50 max, grouping capped at 30.

[164] cat=detect obj=1.4.3 (Configure and manage analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel SIEM, including scheduled, near-real time (NRT), threat intelligence, and machine learning)
FRONT: Analytics rule type: Microsoft security (incident creation)
BACK: #Creates Sentinel incidents from alerts of other Microsoft products in real time | Not available once Defender XDR integration or Defender portal onboarding is on
WHY: Microsoft incident creation rules take alerts from services such as Defender for Cloud, Entra ID Protection or the standalone Defender product connectors and open Sentinel incidents, optionally filtered by severity or alert name. With the Defender XDR connector's incident sync or unified SecOps onboarding, they are redundant and must be turned off to avoid duplicates. Stem signal: 'incidents appear twice'.

[165] cat=detect obj=1.4.3 (Configure and manage analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel SIEM, including scheduled, near-real time (NRT), threat intelligence, and machine learning)
FRONT: Analytics rule type: Fusion (advanced multistage attack detection)
BACK: #ML correlates low-fidelity signals across products into high-fidelity incidents | One per workspace, on by default; unavailable with Defender integration
WHY: Fusion is Microsoft's correlation engine that joins weak signals — an anomalous sign-in, then a suspicious download, then mass deletion — into a single multistage incident. It is enabled out of the box, cannot be duplicated, and is superseded by Defender XDR correlation when the workspace is integrated or onboarded to the Defender portal. Stem signal: 'detect multistage attacks spanning Entra and endpoint data without writing KQL'.

[166] cat=detect obj=1.4.3 (Configure and manage analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel SIEM, including scheduled, near-real time (NRT), threat intelligence, and machine learning)
FRONT: Analytics rule type: Threat Intelligence
BACK: #Matches CEF, Syslog and Windows DNS events against Microsoft threat indicators | One non-customizable rule; high-fidelity alerts
WHY: The Threat Intelligence rule is a single built-in detection that compares network and DNS events with Microsoft-curated domains, IPs and URLs and raises alerts enriched with Defender Threat Intelligence context. It has no editable query. Do not confuse it with the scheduled TI map templates, which match your own ThreatIntelIndicators against chosen tables and are fully customizable.

[167] cat=detect obj=1.4.3 (Configure and manage analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel SIEM, including scheduled, near-real time (NRT), threat intelligence, and machine learning)
FRONT: Analytics rule type: ML behavior analytics
BACK: #Anomalous SSH and RDP logon detection from IP, geo and user history | Built-in, non-customizable
WHY: ML behavior analytics rules are Microsoft-trained models that flag unusual SSH or RDP logins based on where the user normally connects from and when. They ship as unique rule templates you simply enable, and they require the corresponding Syslog or SecurityEvent data. Stem signal: 'detect unusual remote logons without defining thresholds'.

[168] cat=detect obj=1.4.3 (Configure and manage analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel SIEM, including scheduled, near-real time (NRT), threat intelligence, and machine learning)
FRONT: Scheduled rule: Run every / Lookup data from the last
BACK: #Frequency 5 min–14 days; lookback 5 min–14 days; lookback ≥ frequency | 5-minute ingestion delay is added automatically
WHY: The two scheduling fields set how often the query executes and how far back each run looks. A lookback shorter than the frequency leaves gaps; a lookback longer than the frequency re-examines events and can alert twice. Sentinel also shifts the window by five minutes to absorb ingestion latency. Stem signal: 'the rule missed events that occurred between runs' — lookback is too short.

[169] cat=detect obj=1.4.3 (Configure and manage analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel SIEM, including scheduled, near-real time (NRT), threat intelligence, and machine learning)
FRONT: Scheduled rule: Alert threshold
BACK: #Alert when results are greater than / fewer than / equal to N | Evaluated per run, not cumulatively
WHY: The threshold decides whether a run's row count creates an alert. The default is greater than 0, but you can require, for example, more than 20 results for noisy queries, or fewer than 1 to alert when expected heartbeat data stops arriving. The count is per execution. Stem signal: 'alert when the backup job stops logging' uses a fewer-than threshold.

[170] cat=detect obj=1.4.3 (Configure and manage analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel SIEM, including scheduled, near-real time (NRT), threat intelligence, and machine learning)
FRONT: Scheduled rule: Event grouping
BACK: #Group all events into a single alert (default) or trigger an alert for each event | Per-event capped at 150 alerts per run
WHY: Event grouping chooses between a single summary alert containing all rows and separate alerts per row. Per-event grouping gives one alert, entity set and incident per result, which is useful when each row is a different victim, but a run producing more than 150 rows yields 149 individual alerts plus one summarizing the rest. Stem signal: 'a separate incident for each affected user'.
HOOK: Per-event grouping: 149 + 1 summary at the cap.

[171] cat=detect obj=1.4.3 (Configure and manage analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel SIEM, including scheduled, near-real time (NRT), threat intelligence, and machine learning)
FRONT: Scheduled rule: Entity mapping
BACK: #Map query columns to entity types: Account, Host, IP, URL, File hash… | Up to 10 entities, 3 identifiers each
WHY: Entity mapping tells Sentinel which columns are the account, host, IP address and so on, so alerts populate the Entities field, the investigation graph links them, UEBA enriches them and automation rule conditions and entity playbooks can use them. A rule can map up to ten entities with up to three identifiers each. Stem signal: 'the incident shows no entities' means mapping was skipped.

[172] cat=detect obj=1.4.3 (Configure and manage analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel SIEM, including scheduled, near-real time (NRT), threat intelligence, and machine learning)
FRONT: Scheduled rule: Custom details and alert details override
BACK: #Custom details: surface up to 20 query fields in the alert | Alert details: dynamic name, description, severity, tactics from columns
WHY: Custom details carry chosen columns into the alert's extended properties for analysts and automation conditions. Alert details override replaces the static rule name, description, severity or tactics with values drawn from the row, so one rule can produce a High alert for admins and Medium for others. Stem signal: 'severity should depend on the user's role column'.

[173] cat=detect obj=1.4.3 (Configure and manage analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel SIEM, including scheduled, near-real time (NRT), threat intelligence, and machine learning)
FRONT: Scheduled rule: Incident settings and alert grouping
BACK: #Create incidents on/off; group related alerts into one incident | By all entities, selected entities/details, or all alerts from the rule; window up to 7 days
WHY: Incident settings control whether each alert opens an incident and whether alerts from the rule are consolidated. Grouping can require matching on all mapped entities, on selected entities and custom details, or simply bundle every alert from the rule within a time window from 5 minutes to 7 days, with up to 150 alerts per incident. Stem signal: 'one incident per attacked host rather than per attempt' is grouping on the Host entity.

[174] cat=detect obj=1.4.3 (Configure and manage analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel SIEM, including scheduled, near-real time (NRT), threat intelligence, and machine learning)
FRONT: Scheduled rule: Suppression
BACK: #Stop running the query for a period after an alert fires | Up to 24 hours
WHY: Suppression stops the rule from executing for a chosen interval once it has produced an alert, preventing a burst of identical alerts from a continuing condition. The maximum pause is 24 hours. It is a rule-level control, unlike automation rules that close incidents or XDR alert tuning that hides alerts. Stem signal: 'after alerting, do not alert again for the next 12 hours'.

[175] cat=detect obj=1.4.3 (Configure and manage analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel SIEM, including scheduled, near-real time (NRT), threat intelligence, and machine learning)
FRONT: Validating the KQL in the analytics rule wizard
BACK: #Wizard checks syntax and shows Results simulation over the last 50 runs | Queries cannot use search * or union *
WHY: The rule wizard will not save a query with syntax errors, and the Results simulation panel charts how many results the query would have produced over recent intervals so you can tune frequency and threshold before enabling. Queries must be 1 to 10,000 characters and cannot use search * or union *. Stem signal: 'estimate how noisy the rule will be before turning it on'.

[176] cat=detect obj=1.4.3 (Configure and manage analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel SIEM, including scheduled, near-real time (NRT), threat intelligence, and machine learning)
FRONT: Rule templates in the content hub
BACK: #Solutions install analytics rule templates; create rules from them | Templates list required data connectors
WHY: Microsoft and partner solutions in the content hub include analytics rule templates. After installing a solution you create active rules from its templates, adjusting schedule, threshold and automation; the template shows which connectors must be streaming. Stem signal: 'use Microsoft-provided detections for Palo Alto logs' is install solution, then enable templates.

[177] cat=detect obj=1.4.3 (Configure and manage analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel SIEM, including scheduled, near-real time (NRT), threat intelligence, and machine learning)
FRONT: Analytics rule health — SentinelHealth
BACK: #Enable Auditing and health monitoring; rule runs log to SentinelHealth | Success or Failure with reasons; changes audited in SentinelAudit
KQL:
    _SentinelHealth()
    | where SentinelResourceType == "Analytics Rule"
    | where Status == "Failure"
WHY: After turning on health monitoring under Settings, each scheduled and NRT rule run writes a SentinelHealth record with status and reason, such as a missing table, timeout or semantic error, queryable with _SentinelHealth(). SentinelAudit separately records who changed a rule and what. Stem signal: 'find analytics rules that are failing to run'.

[178] cat=detect obj=1.4.4 (Analyze attack vector coverage by using the MITRE ATT&CK matrix)
FRONT: MITRE ATT&CK page — active vs simulated coverage
BACK: #Active: techniques covered by enabled scheduled/NRT rules | Simulated: what templates and hunting queries could add
WHY: The MITRE ATT&CK blade draws the tactic-and-technique matrix and shades each technique by how many active detections map to it. Switching on simulated coverage adds rule templates and hunting queries you have not enabled, revealing the gap between current and possible coverage. Stem signal: 'identify techniques with no active detection' or 'what coverage would we gain by enabling templates'.
HOOK: Active = what you have; simulated = what you could have.

[179] cat=detect obj=1.4.4 (Analyze attack vector coverage by using the MITRE ATT&CK matrix)
FRONT: How a rule gets onto the MITRE matrix
BACK: #Tactics and techniques are assigned in the rule or hunting query settings | Incidents inherit them from alerts
WHY: Coverage is only as good as tagging: each analytics rule and hunting query has a MITRE tactics and techniques selection, and the matrix counts those tags. Incidents inherit the techniques of their alerts, which is also what SOC optimization's threat-based recommendations use. Stem signal: 'the detection exists but the matrix shows the technique as uncovered' means the rule is not tagged.

[180] cat=detect obj=1.4.5 (Configure anomalies in Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Anomaly rules — what they produce
BACK: #ML baselines write anomaly records to the Anomalies table | Enabled by default; no alerts on their own
KQL:
    Anomalies
    | where AnomalyTemplateName has "Login"
    | where Score > 0.8
WHY: Customizable anomaly rules run machine-learning models over sources such as sign-ins, Office activity and network data, scoring deviations from learned baselines. Results land in the Anomalies table rather than as alerts, where hunting queries, scheduled rules and Fusion can consume them. They are on by default in Production mode. Stem signal: 'use anomaly scores as evidence in a scheduled detection'.

[181] cat=detect obj=1.4.5 (Configure anomalies in Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Tuning an anomaly rule
BACK: #Duplicate the built-in rule, edit thresholds/parameters, run in Flighting, then switch to Production | Only one customized copy per rule
WHY: Built-in anomaly rules cannot be edited directly. You duplicate one, which creates a disabled copy marked Flighting, adjust its parameters and threshold, enable it and compare results in the Anomalies table, then promote it to Production, which moves the original into Flighting. Each template allows one customized copy. Stem signal: 'too many anomalies from the sign-in model' — duplicate and raise the threshold.

[182] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.1 (Investigate and remediate threats by using Microsoft Defender for Office 365, including automatic attack disruption)
FRONT: Threat Explorer vs Real-time detections — licensing split
BACK: #Explorer needs Defender for Office 365 Plan 2; Real-time detections ships with Plan 1 | Explorer adds the All email, Campaigns and URL clicks views plus post-delivery history
WHY: Both tools live under Email and collaboration in the Defender portal and show detections at delivery time. Explorer is the Plan 2 superset: it also tracks what happened after delivery (ZAP, admin actions, user clicks), offers more filters and saved queries. Stem clue: a question that says the tenant only has Plan 1 and asks why the Campaigns view or All email view is missing is pointing at this licensing line.

[183] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.1 (Investigate and remediate threats by using Microsoft Defender for Office 365, including automatic attack disruption)
FRONT: Soft delete vs hard delete on an email in Threat Explorer
BACK: #Soft delete parks the message in Recoverable Items\Deletions; hard delete purges it | Soft-deleted mail is recoverable by user and admin; hard-deleted only by admin single-item recovery
WHY: The Take action wizard on selected messages offers Move to Junk, Move to Inbox, Move to Deleted Items, Soft delete and Hard delete. Soft delete is the usual remediation because it is reversible by the recipient, while hard delete removes the item from the user's reach entirely. Expect a scenario where the SOC must remove a phish but keep it recoverable for a later eDiscovery review: soft delete is the answer.
HOOK: Soft = user can still recover; hard = only an admin can.

[184] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.1 (Investigate and remediate threats by using Microsoft Defender for Office 365, including automatic attack disruption)
FRONT: Permission needed to move or delete email from Explorer
BACK: #Search and Purge role (Email and collaboration) or the unified RBAC equivalent | Unified RBAC: Security operations / Security data / Email and collaboration advanced actions (manage)
WHY: Reading detections in Explorer is open to security readers, but moving or purging mail is a destructive action gated by Search and Purge. Out of the box only the Data Investigator and Organization Management role groups carry it, so a question about an analyst who can see a phishing message but cannot delete it is asking for that role. Preview and download of message content needs the separate Preview role.

[185] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.1 (Investigate and remediate threats by using Microsoft Defender for Office 365, including automatic attack disruption)
FRONT: Two-step approval for email remediation — how it flows
BACK: #An analyst proposes a soft delete; an approver confirms it in the Action center | Pending actions sit on the Action center Pending tab until approved or rejected
WHY: When the person submitting an email action lacks purge rights, or when AIR recommends an action, the remediation is created as pending. Someone with Search and Purge opens the Action center (Actions and submissions) and approves or rejects it; the History tab then records the outcome. The exam tends to describe a junior analyst whose email deletion never happens and asks where the request is waiting.

[186] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.1 (Investigate and remediate threats by using Microsoft Defender for Office 365, including automatic attack disruption)
FRONT: Zero-hour auto purge (ZAP) — what it does
BACK: #Retroactively moves already-delivered mail after a verdict changes | Looks back 48 hours; malware and high-confidence phish go to quarantine
WHY: ZAP runs continuously in Exchange Online: when signatures or intelligence later classify a delivered message as malware, phishing or spam, it moves the message without user notification. Malware and high-confidence phishing are quarantined regardless of read state, while spam ZAP only touches unread mail and follows the anti-spam policy action. In Explorer, filter the All email view by Additional action equal to ZAP to find those events.
HOOK: ZAP = the mail server changes its mind within 48 hours.

[187] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.1 (Investigate and remediate threats by using Microsoft Defender for Office 365, including automatic attack disruption)
FRONT: ZAP for spam vs ZAP for high-confidence phishing — the difference
BACK: #Spam ZAP acts only on unread messages and obeys the anti-spam policy action | High-confidence phish and malware are quarantined whether read or not
WHY: The policy action matters: if the anti-spam policy says Move to Junk, spam ZAP moves to Junk; if the action is add X-header, prepend subject, redirect or delete, ZAP does nothing for that verdict. Malware and high-confidence phishing bypass that logic and are quarantined. A stem asking why a read spam message survived while a read phish was pulled is testing this distinction.
HOOK: Read mail survives spam ZAP, not phish ZAP.

[188] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.1 (Investigate and remediate threats by using Microsoft Defender for Office 365, including automatic attack disruption)
FRONT: Campaign views in Defender for Office 365 — what they add
BACK: #Groups related phish or malware mail into a coordinated attack with a Campaign ID | Flow diagram: sender IPs, domains, filter verdicts, destinations, URL clicks
WHY: Campaigns (Plan 2 only) cluster messages by sender infrastructure, payload and style so an analyst sees the whole wave instead of single messages. The flyout shows Targeted percentage, Inboxed, Clicked and Visited counts, and the Explore messages button pivots into Threat Explorer with filters applied. On the exam, a request to see how many users clicked across an entire coordinated phishing wave is a Campaigns answer.
HOOK: One campaign = many messages, one ID, one Sankey flow.

[189] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.1 (Investigate and remediate threats by using Microsoft Defender for Office 365, including automatic attack disruption)
FRONT: Automated investigation and response (AIR) in Defender for Office 365 — triggers
BACK: #Alert policies such as user-reported phish, ZAP removals and a URL click verdict turning malicious | Can also be started manually from Explorer or the email entity page
WHY: AIR (Plan 2) examines the message, its URLs and attachments, the sender and the affected users, then produces recommended actions such as soft delete, block URL or disable a user. Every recommendation waits for approval in the Action center except auto-remediation of malicious URL and file clusters. Exam signal: 'an investigation was triggered automatically after a user reported a message' is AIR, not attack disruption.

[190] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.1 (Investigate and remediate threats by using Microsoft Defender for Office 365, including automatic attack disruption)
FRONT: Attack disruption for business email compromise — the identity actions
BACK: #Disables or contains the compromised sender so fraud mail stops in minutes | Incident gets the Attack Disruption tag and a yellow banner naming the action
WHY: When Defender XDR correlates signals into a high-confidence BEC incident, attack disruption can disable the user in Active Directory, suspend them in Entra ID, revoke sessions or contain the user on endpoints without waiting for an analyst. The incident title carries the attack disruption suffix via the API and the tag in the queue. Every automatic action is listed in the Action center and can be undone once the SOC confirms the account is clean.
HOOK: Disruption stops the account; the SOC reviews afterwards.

[191] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.1 (Investigate and remediate threats by using Microsoft Defender for Office 365, including automatic attack disruption)
FRONT: Submit to Microsoft from Explorer — purpose
BACK: #Reports a message, URL or attachment as clean, suspicious or malicious | Can also add Tenant Allow/Block List entries; needs no purge role
WHY: Submissions tell Microsoft that a filter verdict was wrong, feeding back into detection, and they are available even in Plan 1 without Search and Purge. From the same wizard an analyst can add senders, domains, URLs or file hashes to the Tenant Allow/Block List. Distinguish from user-reported messages, which arrive on the Submissions page's User reported tab and can themselves trigger AIR.

[192] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.2 (Investigate and remediate threats or compromised entities identified by Microsoft Purview)
FRONT: Purview DLP alerts in the Defender portal — how to find them
BACK: #Filter the incident queue by service source Microsoft Data Loss Prevention | Flows automatically for eligible E5-class tenants
WHY: When the tenant holds Microsoft 365 E5, E5 Compliance or E5 Information Protection and Governance, DLP policy matches generate alerts inside Defender XDR alongside endpoint and email alerts. The alert page shows the matched policy, the sensitive information types, the user and the file or message. Exam phrasing: 'the SOC must triage data-loss events without leaving the Defender portal' points here rather than to the Purview DLP alerts dashboard.

[193] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.2 (Investigate and remediate threats or compromised entities identified by Microsoft Purview)
FRONT: DLP alert page in Defender — the evidence it exposes
BACK: #Matched policy, sensitive info types tab, user, file link and Source tab for content | In-place actions on SharePoint/OneDrive files: unshare, delete, apply label
WHY: The alert story lists the user activity that triggered the match; the Sensitive info types tab shows which classifiers fired; the Source tab reveals the file content to users with the right permission. Remediation buttons let the analyst apply a retention or sensitivity label, unshare, delete or download the file, and download an offending email. A question about proving what sensitive data left and then revoking the share is answered on this page.

[194] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.2 (Investigate and remediate threats or compromised entities identified by Microsoft Purview)
FRONT: Hunting Purview DLP activity — which advanced hunting table
BACK: #CloudAppEvents holds the SharePoint, OneDrive, Exchange and device audit records | Go hunt offers built-in queries such as user DLP violations for the last 30 days
KQL:
    CloudAppEvents
    | where ActionType has "DLP"
    | where AccountUpn =~ "ana@fabrikam.com"
WHY: DLP evidence is audit data, so it lands in CloudAppEvents rather than a dedicated endpoint table. The Go hunt control on a DLP alert pre-builds queries like file shared with, file activities and site activity, scoped to the user or file. On the exam, if the stem asks you to find every file a flagged user shared externally in the last month, CloudAppEvents is the table to pick.

[195] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.2 (Investigate and remediate threats or compromised entities identified by Microsoft Purview)
FRONT: Insider risk severity on the Defender user page — where it appears
BACK: #The identity Overview tab shows an Insider risk severity card when Purview IRM is enabled | Lets the SOC weigh Purview risk alongside alerts and UEBA anomalies
WHY: Insider Risk Management scores users on exfiltration and policy-driven indicators; with the integration on, that severity surfaces on the user's Overview tab in Defender next to Entra attributes, AD flags and recent alerts. It is context for prioritisation, not an alert in itself. Expect the exam to describe an analyst who wants Purview's insider signal without opening the Purview portal; the identity page is where it lives.

[196] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.2 (Investigate and remediate threats or compromised entities identified by Microsoft Purview)
FRONT: Compromised entity identified by Purview — the pivot in Defender
BACK: #Select the user card on the DLP alert to open the identity and take identity actions | Device card opens the endpoint for device-side remediation
WHY: A Purview alert is only the clue; remediation happens on the entity. From the DLP alert page, the user card opens the Defender identity page where you can require sign-in again, suspend in Entra or mark the account compromised, and the device card opens the device page for isolation or scan. The exam likes the chain 'DLP flagged a bulk download, now stop the account': alert, user card, response.

[197] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.2 (Investigate and remediate threats or compromised entities identified by Microsoft Purview)
FRONT: Why Purview and XDR alerts correlate into one incident
BACK: #Defender XDR groups alerts sharing users, devices or files, including DLP alerts | A data exfiltration alert can join an endpoint or identity incident automatically
WHY: Incident correlation in Defender XDR is entity-driven: when a DLP alert names the same user as a risky sign-in or a Defender for Endpoint detection, they roll up into one incident with a combined attack story. The benefit on the exam is phrased as 'reduce the number of separate investigations' or 'see the data-loss step within the broader attack'. Severity of the incident follows the highest alert inside it.

[198] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.3 (Investigate and remediate alerts and incidents identified by Microsoft Defender for Cloud workload protections)
FRONT: Defender for Cloud alert severity — High
BACK: #High probability the resource is compromised; investigate immediately | Example: a known malicious tool such as Mimikatz executed on a VM
WHY: Defender for Cloud scores each alert by confidence in both the detection and the malicious intent. High means both are strong, so the exam expects you to triage these first on the Security alerts page. Compare with Medium (suspicious, possibly compromised) and Low (possibly benign or already blocked). A stem listing alert severities and asking which to handle first is this card.

[199] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.3 (Investigate and remediate alerts and incidents identified by Microsoft Defender for Cloud workload protections)
FRONT: Defender for Cloud alert severity — Medium
BACK: #Suspicious activity that may indicate compromise | Example: sign-in from an unusual location flagged by anomaly analytics
WHY: Medium combines moderate confidence in the analytic with medium-to-high confidence that the intent is malicious, which is typical of machine-learning and anomaly detections. These need investigation but after High alerts. On the exam, 'anomalous', 'unusual' and 'ML-based' in a Defender for Cloud alert description usually map to Medium rather than High.

[200] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.3 (Investigate and remediate alerts and incidents identified by Microsoft Defender for Cloud workload protections)
FRONT: Defender for Cloud alert severity — Low and Informational
BACK: #Low: possibly benign or a blocked attack, low confidence of intent | Informational: benign alone but meaningful inside a correlated incident
WHY: Log clearing is the classic Low example: an admin housekeeping task or an attacker hiding tracks. Informational alerts are dismissed in bulk by many teams but Defender for Cloud keeps them because a security incident (correlated alerts) can turn several Informational items into a real pattern. Exam tip: when building a Sentinel incident creation rule for Defender for Cloud alerts, filter out Informational to avoid noise.

[201] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.3 (Investigate and remediate alerts and incidents identified by Microsoft Defender for Cloud workload protections)
FRONT: Workload protection plans that raise Defender for Cloud alerts
BACK: #Servers, Storage, Containers, SQL, Key Vault, DNS, Resource Manager, App Service, APIs | No plan enabled on the subscription means no alerts for that resource type
WHY: Each Defender for Cloud plan watches a different plane: Servers covers VMs and on-premises machines, Storage covers blob and file activity, Resource Manager covers control-plane operations, Key Vault covers secret access, DNS covers resolution patterns. A stem saying 'alerts are missing for the SQL database' with a plan not enabled is asking you to turn on Defender for SQL, not to tune Sentinel.

[202] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.3 (Investigate and remediate alerts and incidents identified by Microsoft Defender for Cloud workload protections)
FRONT: MITRE ATT&CK on a Defender for Cloud alert — where it shows
BACK: #Each alert carries a kill-chain intent mapped to ATT&CK tactics | Visible on the alert details alongside affected resources and remediation steps
WHY: The alert page in Defender for Cloud lists severity, status, activity time, description, affected resource and the MITRE tactic (kill chain intent), plus detailed technical data such as IPs, files and processes in the full view. Alerts are retained in the portal for 90 days even if the resource is deleted and can be exported to CSV. Exam clue: 'identify which attack stage the alert represents' is the tactic field.

[203] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.3 (Investigate and remediate alerts and incidents identified by Microsoft Defender for Cloud workload protections)
FRONT: Take action tab on a Defender for Cloud alert — the five options
BACK: #Inspect resource context, Mitigate the threat, Prevent future attacks, Trigger automated response, Suppress similar alerts | Automated response runs a Logic App
WHY: The Take action tab is the response hub: it links to the resource's activity logs, lists manual mitigation steps for that alert type, points to recommendations that would prevent recurrence, lets you fire a workflow automation (Logic App) and lets you build a suppression rule. On the exam, 'run an automated remediation when this alert fires again' maps to Trigger automated response, not to a Sentinel playbook.

[204] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.3 (Investigate and remediate alerts and incidents identified by Microsoft Defender for Cloud workload protections)
FRONT: Suppression rules in Defender for Cloud — what they are for
BACK: #Hide future alerts matching known-benign conditions, such as a sanctioned scanner | Created from Suppress similar alerts on an alert or from the alerts page
WHY: A suppression rule names the alert type and optional entity conditions (an IP, a process, a host) and an expiry, after which matching alerts are not shown. It reduces fatigue without changing the detection itself. Distinguish from Sentinel automation rules that close incidents, and from Defender XDR alert tuning rules for endpoint alerts. Stem clue: 'vulnerability scanner triggers the same Defender for Cloud alert nightly' means create a suppression rule.

[205] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.3 (Investigate and remediate alerts and incidents identified by Microsoft Defender for Cloud workload protections)
FRONT: Bi-directional alert sync between Defender for Cloud and Sentinel
BACK: #Closing the Sentinel incident closes the originating Defender for Cloud alert | Default is one-way (Defender for Cloud to Sentinel); enable on the connector
WHY: The Defender for Cloud connector always pushes alert status into Sentinel, so an alert dismissed in Defender for Cloud appears closed in Sentinel. Turning on bi-directional sync adds the reverse direction and needs Contributor or Security Admin on the subscription. The tenant-based connector variant covers every subscription at once. Exam wording: 'analysts close incidents in Sentinel but alerts stay open in Defender for Cloud' is solved by enabling bi-directional sync.
HOOK: Default is one way down; flip the switch for two ways.

[206] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.3 (Investigate and remediate alerts and incidents identified by Microsoft Defender for Cloud workload protections)
FRONT: Just-in-time VM access — its place in response
BACK: #Defender for Servers Plan 2 feature that opens management ports only on request | Default ports 22, 3389, 5985, 5986; default maximum window 3 hours
WHY: JIT keeps NSG or Azure Firewall rules closed for management ports until a user requests access from a specific source IP for a limited time, then closes them again. During investigation the JIT activity log shows who opened which port and when, which is useful evidence for a brute-force alert on a VM. The exam frames it as reducing exposure after a Defender for Cloud alert about RDP brute force.
HOOK: JIT = management ports closed by default, opened on a timer.

[207] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.4 (Investigate and remediate security risks identified by Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps)
FRONT: Activity policy in Defender for Cloud Apps
BACK: #Watches specific user actions via the app connector API and alerts on patterns or volume | Example: many failed sign-ins or mass downloads in one session
WHY: Activity policies use the connected app's API to inspect events after the fact and can fire on a single matching activity or a repeated-activity threshold. Governance actions include notify user, suspend user, require sign-in again and confirm user compromised. Contrast with session policies, which act in real time through the proxy. Exam clue: 'alert when a user downloads more than N files within M minutes' is an activity policy.

[208] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.4 (Investigate and remediate security risks identified by Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps)
FRONT: Anomaly detection policy in Defender for Cloud Apps
BACK: #Built-in machine learning that flags deviations from a learned baseline | Seven-day learning period; examples include impossible travel and infrequent country
WHY: Anomaly detection policies are pre-built and mostly tunable rather than authored: you adjust sensitivity and scope, not the logic. The engine needs about seven days of data to learn and compares against roughly thirty days of history across risk factors like location, device, activity rate and admin actions. Since mid-2025 many legacy detections migrated to dynamic names. On the exam, 'no rule was written but an alert fired' signals an anomaly policy.

[209] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.4 (Investigate and remediate security risks identified by Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps)
FRONT: File policy in Defender for Cloud Apps
BACK: #Scans connected cloud storage for sensitive content or file types and applies governance | Retires January 6, 2027; Microsoft steers to Purview DLP
WHY: File policies inspect files at rest in connected apps, matching on data types such as credit card numbers, sharing level or owner, then take actions like remove external sharing, apply a sensitivity label, user quarantine or admin quarantine. Because the capability is being retired in favour of Purview DLP, the exam may present a migration scenario. Stem clue: 'publicly shared file containing PII in SharePoint' is the classic file policy case.

[210] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.4 (Investigate and remediate security risks identified by Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps)
FRONT: Session policy vs access policy in Defender for Cloud Apps
BACK: #Access policy decides whether the sign-in proceeds; session policy controls actions inside | Both run through Conditional Access App Control
WHY: Access policies block or allow entry based on device, location, client app or certificate, for example blocking native clients from unmanaged devices. Session policies watch the live browser session and can block download, cut, copy and print, label on download, block unlabeled uploads, block malware or require step-up authentication. On the exam, 'allow access but prevent downloading sensitive files from an unmanaged device' is a session policy.
HOOK: Access = door; session = what you may do inside.

[211] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.4 (Investigate and remediate security risks identified by Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps)
FRONT: OAuth app policy and app discovery policy — what each detects
BACK: #OAuth app policy: risky permissions granted to third-party apps | App discovery policy: new or risky apps found in Cloud Discovery traffic
WHY: OAuth app policies look at the permissions apps have been granted in the tenant and can revoke or ban an app; app discovery policies watch Cloud Discovery data and alert when a newly seen app exceeds a usage or risk threshold. Exam distinction: a question about an app that users consented to with mail.read permissions is OAuth, while a question about unknown SaaS traffic from the proxy logs is discovery.

[212] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.4 (Investigate and remediate security risks identified by Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps)
FRONT: Governance actions on a user in Defender for Cloud Apps
BACK: #Notify user, suspend user, require user to sign in again, confirm user compromised | Confirm compromised sets Entra user risk to high so risk policies fire
WHY: These actions ride on the Entra ID integration: require sign-in again revokes refresh tokens and session cookies, suspend removes access immediately, and confirm compromised pushes the user into high risk so a user-risk Conditional Access policy can force a secure password change. The exam often asks for the action that forces re-authentication without disabling the account, which is require user to sign in again.
HOOK: Confirm compromised hands the user to Entra risk policies.

[213] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.4 (Investigate and remediate security risks identified by Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps)
FRONT: Cloud Discovery — where the data comes from
BACK: #Defender for Endpoint integration, log collector, firewall/proxy logs, SWG partners | Snapshot reports for ad-hoc uploads; continuous reports for streaming
WHY: Cloud Discovery compares traffic logs against a catalog of more than 31,000 apps, each scored 1 to 10 across 90-plus risk factors. The Defender for Endpoint integration needs no extra appliance and covers off-network devices. Marking an app unsanctioned can push block indicators to endpoints via network protection. Exam clue: 'identify shadow IT used from laptops at home' means enable the Defender for Endpoint integration.

[214] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.4 (Investigate and remediate security risks identified by Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps)
FRONT: Conditional Access App Control — how sessions get routed
BACK: #An Entra Conditional Access policy sends the session through the Defender for Cloud Apps proxy | Non-Edge browsers see the .mcas.ms suffix; Edge protects in-browser
WHY: The session control named Use Conditional Access App Control in Entra Conditional Access hands the browser session to Defender for Cloud Apps, where access and session policies apply in real time. It covers browser traffic only (SAML 2.0 or OpenID Connect apps), not desktop clients. On the exam, a user noticing a .mcas.ms address bar or a lock icon in Edge is the tell that app control is in play.

[215] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.4 (Investigate and remediate security risks identified by Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps)
FRONT: Impossible travel vs activity from infrequent country
BACK: #Impossible travel: two activities too far apart in too little time | Infrequent country: location never or rarely seen for that user
WHY: Both are anomaly detections, but they ask different questions. Impossible travel needs two events and compares distance against elapsed time, with VPN-aware suppression and a sensitivity slider. Infrequent country needs only one event and compares against the user's and tenant's history. The exam may add that a VPN egress point explains the alert; that is the impossible travel false-positive case, tuned by lowering sensitivity or adding the IP range.
HOOK: Two points too fast = impossible travel; one new map pin = infrequent country.

[216] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.4 (Investigate and remediate security risks identified by Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps)
FRONT: Investigation priority score on the user page
BACK: #Single number ranking a user by alerts, anomalous activity and potential impact | Shown on the identity inventory as the risk score and on the user page
WHY: Defender for Cloud Apps and Defender XDR fold a user's open alerts, abnormal behaviours and attributes such as privileged group membership into one score so analysts can sort the identity inventory by exposure rather than by alert count. The score drops as risk is dismissed or remediated. Exam wording like 'determine which of these users to investigate first' is answered by sorting on this score.

[217] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.5 (Investigate and remediate compromised identities that are identified by Microsoft Entra ID)
FRONT: User risk vs sign-in risk in Entra ID Protection
BACK: #User risk: probability the identity itself is compromised (credentials leaked) | Sign-in risk: probability this particular authentication is not the owner
WHY: Identity Protection keeps two separate scores. Detections such as leaked credentials or anomalous user activity raise user risk, which persists until remediated; detections such as unfamiliar sign-in properties or anonymous IP raise the risk of one sign-in. Policies map to each: user risk policy requires a secure password change, sign-in risk policy requires MFA. A stem about a password found in a dump is user risk; a stem about a login from a Tor exit node is sign-in risk.
HOOK: User risk = who; sign-in risk = this one login.

[218] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.5 (Investigate and remediate compromised identities that are identified by Microsoft Entra ID)
FRONT: Risk levels in Entra ID Protection
BACK: #Low, Medium, High per detection; aggregated per user and per sign-in | Policies are usually set to act at Medium and above or High only
WHY: Each detection carries a level reflecting confidence and impact: leaked credentials and suspicious MFA approval are High, while noisier signals are Low. The risk shown on a user is the aggregate of their unremediated detections. Microsoft's guidance is a user risk policy at High and a sign-in risk policy at Medium and above, which is the pairing the exam expects when it asks for the least disruptive secure configuration.

[219] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.5 (Investigate and remediate compromised identities that are identified by Microsoft Entra ID)
FRONT: Real-time vs offline risk detections
BACK: #Real-time: evaluated during authentication so Conditional Access can react instantly | Offline: computed afterwards and raise risk later, e.g. leaked credentials, atypical travel
WHY: Real-time detections such as anonymous IP, unfamiliar sign-in properties, verified threat actor IP and password spray can be acted on by a sign-in risk policy before the token is issued. Offline detections like leaked credentials, atypical travel, malicious IP and anomalous token arrive later, so the user's risk increases after the session already exists. Exam clue: 'the user was already signed in when risk appeared' points to an offline detection and a need to revoke sessions.
HOOK: Real-time blocks the door; offline knocks after you are inside.

[220] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.5 (Investigate and remediate compromised identities that are identified by Microsoft Entra ID)
FRONT: Leaked credentials detection — what it means and its tier
BACK: #Microsoft found the user's valid credentials in a public or dark-web dump | User-risk detection, offline, available without a P2 license
WHY: Leaked credentials is one of the non-premium detections alongside anonymous IP, Entra threat intelligence and admin-confirmed compromise, so even a P1 tenant sees it. Because the password is known to be exposed, the correct response is a secure password change, either via a user risk policy or an admin reset. The exam contrasts it with premium detections such as password spray or anomalous token that need P2.

[221] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.5 (Investigate and remediate compromised identities that are identified by Microsoft Entra ID)
FRONT: Anomalous token vs unfamiliar sign-in properties
BACK: #Anomalous token: token lifetime or replay from an unfamiliar place suggests theft | Unfamiliar sign-in properties: device, location, IP or network the user has never used
WHY: Both are premium detections but they point at different attacks. Anomalous token (sign-in and user flavours) fires when a token is used in a way inconsistent with its issuance, the hallmark of adversary-in-the-middle or token replay, and MFA alone no longer remediates it: a secure password change plus re-authentication is needed. Unfamiliar sign-in properties is real-time and compares the current attributes against the user's history.
HOOK: Stolen token means reset and revoke, not another MFA prompt.

[222] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.5 (Investigate and remediate compromised identities that are identified by Microsoft Entra ID)
FRONT: Password spray and Entra threat intelligence detections
BACK: #Password spray: one password tried across many accounts, flagged in real time or offline | Entra threat intelligence: Microsoft's internal or external sources call the activity malicious
WHY: Password spray is a premium sign-in detection that exists for both real-time and offline evaluation. Microsoft Entra threat intelligence is non-premium and covers both sign-in and user flavours; it is the catch-all for patterns Microsoft's intelligence recognises as attack infrastructure. On the exam, a stem citing 'a known attack pattern reported by Microsoft' is threat intelligence, while 'low-and-slow attempts across the tenant' is spray.

[223] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.5 (Investigate and remediate compromised identities that are identified by Microsoft Entra ID)
FRONT: Confirm compromised vs dismiss on a risky user
BACK: #Confirm compromised sets risk to High and records an admin-confirmed detection | Dismiss marks the risk a false positive and clears it; neither resets the password
WHY: These are the two triage verdicts on the Risky users and Risky sign-ins reports. Confirm compromised feeds the signal back to Microsoft and lets risk policies act; follow it with password reset, block, and revoke tokens. Dismiss user risk sets the state to Dismissed with the detail 'admin dismissed all risk for user'. The exam trap is assuming dismiss changes the password; it only changes the risk state.
HOOK: Confirm feeds the model; dismiss cleans the slate.

[224] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.5 (Investigate and remediate compromised identities that are identified by Microsoft Entra ID)
FRONT: Self-remediation through risk-based Conditional Access
BACK: #User risk policy: require password change (secure change with MFA) | Sign-in risk policy: require MFA; passing it marks the sign-in Remediated
WHY: Risk-based Conditional Access lets users clear their own risk without a help desk ticket. A medium-and-above sign-in risk policy prompts for MFA, and the risk detail becomes 'user passed multifactor authentication'. A high user risk policy forces a secure password change, which is MFA plus a new password rather than the SSPR flow. Hybrid users can remediate on-premises only if the 'allow on-premises password change to reset user risk' setting is enabled with password hash sync.
HOOK: MFA clears sign-in risk; a password change clears user risk.

[225] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.5 (Investigate and remediate compromised identities that are identified by Microsoft Entra ID)
FRONT: Admin manual remediation on a risky user — reset vs block vs revoke
BACK: #Reset password issues a temporary password and sets risk to Remediated | Block sign-in stops access; Revoke sessions kills refresh tokens so existing sessions end
WHY: From Risky users an admin with Security Operator plus User Administrator can reset the password, which clears risk with the detail 'admin generated temporary password'. Blocking the user and revoking sessions are the containment steps when a password change alone would leave an attacker's existing tokens valid. Exam wording: 'the attacker still has access after the password was changed' is answered by revoking sessions.

[226] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.5 (Investigate and remediate compromised identities that are identified by Microsoft Entra ID)
FRONT: Risky workload identities
BACK: #Service principals and app registrations get their own risk detections and report | Remediate by rotating credentials, disabling the principal or blocking with Conditional Access
WHY: Identity Protection extends beyond users: workload identities get detections such as leaked credentials for an app or suspicious sign-in patterns, visible on the Risky workload identities report. Conditional Access for workload identities can block risky service principals, and the usual remediation is to rotate the secret or certificate. The exam signals this with 'an application's client secret was posted on GitHub' and asks where the risk appears.

[227] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.6 (Investigate and remediate security alerts from Microsoft Defender for Identity)
FRONT: Where Defender for Identity sensors are installed
BACK: #On every domain controller, plus AD FS, AD CS and Entra Connect servers | Only domain controller sensors execute remediation actions
WHY: The sensor reads network traffic and events on the box it sits on, so each domain controller needs its own sensor for complete coverage. AD FS sensors watch federation sign-ins, AD CS sensors watch certificate issuance, and Entra Connect sensors watch sync-account abuse; they do not run response actions. Exam stem: 'alerts are missing for one site' usually means a DC in that site has no sensor.

[228] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.6 (Investigate and remediate security alerts from Microsoft Defender for Identity)
FRONT: Defender for Identity alert categories
BACK: #Reconnaissance and discovery; persistence and privilege escalation; credential access; lateral movement; other | Ordered like the kill chain
WHY: Alert documentation groups detections by attack phase. Reconnaissance covers LDAP, DNS and SAMR enumeration; persistence and privilege escalation covers golden ticket variants, skeleton key and sensitive-group changes; credential access covers brute force, AS-REP roasting, DCSync and honeytoken authentication; lateral movement covers pass-the-hash, pass-the-ticket and overpass-the-hash. The exam may show an alert name and ask which phase it indicates.

[229] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.6 (Investigate and remediate security alerts from Microsoft Defender for Identity)
FRONT: Pass-the-hash vs pass-the-ticket alerts
BACK: #Pass-the-hash: a stolen NTLM hash reused from another device | Pass-the-ticket: a Kerberos TGT reused from a device other than where it was issued
WHY: Both are flagged as suspected identity theft in the lateral movement category. Defender for Identity spots pass-the-hash by seeing an NTLM authentication with a hash observed earlier on a different host, and pass-the-ticket by seeing the same ticket presented from two machines. Overpass-the-hash is the Kerberos cousin where a hash is used to request a ticket, often with a weaker encryption type. On the exam the protocol named in the stem decides the answer.

[230] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.6 (Investigate and remediate security alerts from Microsoft Defender for Identity)
FRONT: Golden ticket alerts — the variants
BACK: #Forged TGT signed with the krbtgt hash; flagged by encryption downgrade, nonexistent account, ticket or time anomaly | Persistence and privilege escalation category
WHY: Because a golden ticket is self-signed with the krbtgt key, Defender for Identity cannot see the forgery directly and instead catches side effects: a ticket for an account that does not exist, a lifetime longer than policy allows, an unexpected encryption type, or data that does not match the authorization fields. Remediation is a double reset of krbtgt. Exam clue: 'the account named in the ticket was deleted months ago' is the nonexistent-account variant.
HOOK: Golden ticket = reset krbtgt twice.

[231] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.6 (Investigate and remediate security alerts from Microsoft Defender for Identity)
FRONT: DCSync vs DCShadow alerts
BACK: #DCSync: a non-DC account requests directory replication to pull hashes | DCShadow: a rogue machine registers as a DC to push changes
WHY: DCSync abuses the replication rights (DS-Replication-Get-Changes) so an attacker can read every password hash including krbtgt; it is a credential access alert. DCShadow is the write direction: the attacker promotes a fake domain controller and replicates malicious changes in, which lands in the other category with two sub-alerts (promotion and replication request). The exam distinguishes by direction of data flow: read is DCSync, write is DCShadow.
HOOK: Sync pulls secrets out; Shadow pushes changes in.

[232] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.6 (Investigate and remediate security alerts from Microsoft Defender for Identity)
FRONT: AS-REP roasting vs Kerberoasting
BACK: #AS-REP roasting: accounts without pre-authentication leak crackable AS-REP data | Kerberoasting: service tickets for SPN accounts are requested and cracked offline
WHY: Both are credential access alerts (Suspected AS-REP Roasting attack and Suspected Kerberos SPN exposure). AS-REP roasting needs a user with 'do not require Kerberos preauthentication' set, so the fix is to enable pre-authentication; Kerberoasting targets accounts with a servicePrincipalName and a weak password, so the fix is long passwords or gMSAs for services. Exam clue: 'pre-authentication disabled' decides it is AS-REP.
HOOK: AS-REP = preauth off; Kerberoast = SPN with weak password.

[233] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.6 (Investigate and remediate security alerts from Microsoft Defender for Identity)
FRONT: Honeytoken alerts
BACK: #A decoy account you tag; any authentication, LDAP query or attribute change raises an alert | Near-zero false positives because nobody should touch it
WHY: Honeytoken accounts are configured under Defender for Identity settings and generate alerts such as Honeytoken authentication activity, Honeytoken was queried via LDAP and Honeytoken user attributes modified. Because the account has no legitimate use, any activity is high-signal evidence of reconnaissance or credential theft. On the exam, a request to detect attackers enumerating accounts with minimal false positives is this feature.
HOOK: Honeytoken: bait that should never bite.

[234] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.6 (Investigate and remediate security alerts from Microsoft Defender for Identity)
FRONT: Brute force and NTLM relay alerts
BACK: #Suspected Brute Force attack (Kerberos, NTLM) and a separate SMB brute force alert | Suspected NTLM relay attack (Exchange account) flags coerced authentication relayed to another host
WHY: Brute force shows up as many failed authentications followed by a success, which Defender for Identity reports in the credential access or lateral movement categories depending on protocol. NTLM relay catches an Exchange server's machine account authentication being replayed to another service, a classic path to domain dominance. Remediation differs: lockout and MFA for brute force, SMB and LDAP signing or EPA for relay.

[235] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.6 (Investigate and remediate security alerts from Microsoft Defender for Identity)
FRONT: Response actions on an on-premises AD user from Defender
BACK: #Disable user in AD, enable user in AD, force password reset | Taken from the identity page, side panel, advanced hunting or by attack disruption
WHY: The Defender portal can act on Active Directory because a domain controller sensor executes the change using its local system account or a configured gMSA, set under Settings, Identities, Manage action accounts. Disable and enable need Domain Admin-equivalent rights on the operator; force password change can be done by Authentication, User, Password or Helpdesk Administrators. Exam stem: 'disable the on-prem account without RDP to a DC' is this feature.

[236] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.6 (Investigate and remediate security alerts from Microsoft Defender for Identity)
FRONT: Attack paths tab on the identity page
BACK: #Shows potential lateral movement routes from this identity toward sensitive accounts | Complements Security recommendations from identity posture assessments
WHY: The identity page in Defender gathers Overview, Incidents and alerts, Observed in organization, Risk score, Timeline, Security recommendations, Attack paths, Policies and Sentinel events. Attack paths visualises how an attacker who owns this account could hop to privileged accounts through shared sessions or local admin rights, which is the lateral movement path concept. Exam clue: 'reduce the exposure of domain admins to a compromised helpdesk account' means review this tab and remove the admin rights it shows.

[237] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.7 (Investigate and remediate alerts and incidents identified by Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Sentinel incident status values
BACK: #New, Active, Closed | Closing requires a classification
WHY: Every Sentinel incident starts as New, moves to Active when someone owns the investigation, and ends Closed with a classification and optional comment. Automation rules can change status, for example setting Active when assigning an owner. In the Defender portal the equivalent states read Active, In progress and Resolved, so read the stem for which portal it is describing. A question about reopening is simply setting the status back from Closed.

[238] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.7 (Investigate and remediate alerts and incidents identified by Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Closing classification — True positive
BACK: #Suspicious activity: the alert reflected a real attack | The other three are Benign positive, False positive and Undetermined
WHY: When closing a Sentinel incident you pick one of four classifications and may add a reason. True positive with suspicious activity means the detection was right and the activity was hostile. Choose it after remediation so the analytics rule's precision metrics and SOC optimization recommendations reflect reality. Exam clue: 'the user's account was confirmed compromised' closes as True positive.
HOOK: True positive = right detection, bad activity.

[239] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.7 (Investigate and remediate alerts and incidents identified by Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Closing classification — Benign positive
BACK: #Suspicious but expected: the rule fired correctly on authorised activity | Example: a scheduled penetration test or sanctioned admin script
WHY: Benign positive is the subtle one: the logic was correct, the behaviour looked like an attack, but it was approved. Red-team exercises, vulnerability scans and change-window scripts are typical. Picking Benign positive rather than False positive matters because it tells tuning efforts that the rule is fine and only an exception or allow-list is needed. Exam wording like 'the activity was performed by the security team during testing' is Benign positive.
HOOK: Benign positive: the rule is right, the actor is friendly.

[240] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.7 (Investigate and remediate alerts and incidents identified by Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Closing classification — False positive vs Undetermined
BACK: #False positive: inaccurate detection, nothing suspicious happened | Undetermined: not enough information to decide
WHY: False positive means the analytics logic misfired on normal activity, so the follow-up is to tune the rule or add an automation rule that auto-closes the pattern. Undetermined is the honest fallback when logs were missing or the window expired; it keeps metrics clean without claiming a verdict. On the exam, 'the rule matched a legitimate service account doing its job and must be tuned' is False positive, while 'logs for that period were not retained' is Undetermined.

[241] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.7 (Investigate and remediate alerts and incidents identified by Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Sentinel incident severity values
BACK: #Informational, Low, Medium, High | Set by the analytics rule; changeable manually or by automation rule
WHY: Severity in Sentinel is a property of the rule that created the incident, so two incidents from the same rule start at the same level. Analysts raise or lower it on the incident; automation rules can change it on creation based on conditions such as a watchlist of VIP users. The Defender portal uses the same four levels for Sentinel incidents once the workspace is onboarded. Distinguish from classification, which only exists at closure.

[242] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.7 (Investigate and remediate alerts and incidents identified by Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Sentinel incident page — what the Overview tab holds
BACK: #Incident timeline of alerts and bookmarks, Similar incidents, Entities, Top insights | Left pane: evidence counts, first entities, owner, Investigate button
WHY: The Overview tab is the triage dashboard: the timeline lists alerts and hunting bookmarks in order, the Entities widget lets you add an entity to threat intelligence or run a playbook on it, and Top insights runs researcher-written queries over a window from 24 hours before the first alert. The Entities tab gives each entity an info card, a seven-day timeline and insights. A stem asking where to see UEBA insights for the incident's user is this page.

[243] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.7 (Investigate and remediate alerts and incidents identified by Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Similar incidents in Sentinel — how similarity is judged
BACK: #Shared entities, the same analytics rule, or matching incident details | Up to 20 are listed with a similarity reason column
WHY: The widget helps an analyst see whether the current incident is part of a wave or a repeat false positive. Each row explains why it matched, and hovering shows the common items. It does not merge incidents; merging in Sentinel happens through the Defender portal's correlation once onboarded, or manually by adding alerts. Exam clue: 'identify previous incidents involving the same IP address' is Similar incidents, not the investigation graph.

[244] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.7 (Investigate and remediate alerts and incidents identified by Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Investigation graph in Sentinel — requirements and use
BACK: #Visual map of alerts and mapped entities, with exploration queries per node | Needs entity mapping on the rule; incidents up to 30 days old
WHY: Selecting Investigate opens the graph, where each entity node offers researcher-built exploration queries, related alerts appear with dotted lines, and a timeline shows the sequence. If a custom rule has no entity mapping the graph is empty, which is the trap the exam sets: the fix is to add entity mappings to the analytics rule, not to change the incident. Raw events are reachable through the Events link into Log Analytics.

[245] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.7 (Investigate and remediate alerts and incidents identified by Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Incident tasks in Sentinel — three ways to add them
BACK: #Manually on the incident, by an automation rule Add task action, or by a playbook | Analysts tick them off in the Tasks panel; Responder role suffices
WHY: Tasks turn tribal knowledge into a checklist on each incident. Automation rules are the recommended path for static steps and can be scoped by analytics rule name; playbooks use the Sentinel connector's Add task to incident and Mark task as completed actions when a task should be created conditionally or auto-closed after an API call succeeds. The exam asks for the simplest way to put the same five steps on every incident from one rule: automation rule.

[246] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.7 (Investigate and remediate alerts and incidents identified by Microsoft Sentinel)
FRONT: Sentinel incidents in the unified Defender portal
BACK: #Onboarding the workspace merges Sentinel and XDR incidents into one queue with bi-directional sync | The Microsoft Defender XDR connector is configured automatically
WHY: Once a workspace (one primary, optional secondaries) is connected to the Defender portal, incident changes made in either portal replicate to the other, advanced hunting spans both data sets, and features such as analytics rules, automation rules, workbooks and watchlists appear in the Defender navigation. Offboarding disconnects the XDR connector. Exam clue: 'analysts want a single queue for Sentinel and Defender incidents' is onboarding, not a playbook.

[247] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.8 (Investigate incidents by using agentic AI, including embedded Microsoft Security Copilot)
FRONT: Embedded Security Copilot in Defender — the incident capabilities
BACK: #Incident summary, guided response, incident report, device and identity summaries | Context-aware: it already knows which incident is open
WHY: The Copilot pane in the Defender portal reads the current incident and offers a plain-language summary, recommended response steps with one-click actions, and a post-incident report. Device and identity summaries pull the same context for assets. It uses the preinstalled Defender, Threat Intelligence and natural-language-to-KQL plugins. Exam clue: 'reduce the time a tier-1 analyst needs to understand an incident' is the embedded summary.

[248] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.8 (Investigate incidents by using agentic AI, including embedded Microsoft Security Copilot)
FRONT: Script analysis and file analysis with Copilot in Defender
BACK: #Explains an obfuscated PowerShell or command line from the alert in plain language | File analysis summarises what a file does and whether it looks malicious
WHY: On an alert whose evidence includes a script or command line, the Analyze button sends it to Copilot, which returns a description of intent, indicators and suspicious techniques. File analysis works from the file page. Both are assistive: the analyst still decides and the verdict is not written back automatically. The exam contrasts this with deep analysis, which detonates a PE file in a sandbox rather than reasoning about its text.

[249] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.8 (Investigate incidents by using agentic AI, including embedded Microsoft Security Copilot)
FRONT: Natural language to KQL in advanced hunting
BACK: #Describe the hunt in English; Copilot drafts the query, you review and run it | Available in the advanced hunting page, not only the standalone portal
WHY: The NL2KQL plugin lets an analyst type something like 'show devices that contacted this IP in the last day' and receive a query against the right tables, which can be edited before running. It accelerates junior analysts but the exam expects you to know the output must still be validated; Copilot does not execute queries on its own. Stem wording 'analysts unfamiliar with KQL need to hunt' points here.

[250] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.8 (Investigate incidents by using agentic AI, including embedded Microsoft Security Copilot)
FRONT: Embedded vs standalone Security Copilot
BACK: #Embedded: lives inside Defender pages with page context | Standalone: securitycopilot.microsoft.com with promptbooks, plugins and session history
WHY: The standalone portal is where you run promptbooks (saved multi-step prompt sequences such as incident investigation), manage plugins and review sessions; embedded experiences surface the same engine inside Defender, Sentinel, Entra and Intune pages. Both consume the same Security Compute Units. Exam clue: 'run a repeatable sequence of prompts across many incidents' is a promptbook in the standalone portal.

[251] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.8 (Investigate incidents by using agentic AI, including embedded Microsoft Security Copilot)
FRONT: Security Compute Units (SCUs) — the Copilot capacity model
BACK: #Provisioned units per hour plus optional overage; exhausting both blocks prompts until the next hour | Usage monitoring dashboard shows consumption by user, plugin and experience
WHY: An Azure capacity resource holds the provisioned SCU count; a Copilot owner who is also the Azure capacity owner or contributor can change it, with effect within about 30 minutes. The usage dashboard keeps 90 days of history and distinguishes prompt, promptbook and agent categories and manual versus automated actions. On the exam, 'analysts receive capacity errors mid-shift' is solved by raising provisioned or overage SCUs.

[252] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.8 (Investigate incidents by using agentic AI, including embedded Microsoft Security Copilot)
FRONT: Phishing Triage Agent — what it does and does not do
BACK: #Autonomously classifies user-reported phishing alerts as true or false positive with an explanation | Does not delete, quarantine or remediate; it classifies, tags and resolves alerts
WHY: The agent triggers on the alert 'Email reported by user as malware or phish', analyses content, detonates URLs and files, and writes its verdict with a visual reasoning trail. False positives are resolved automatically; true positives stay open tagged Agent. It needs Defender for Office 365 Plan 2, unified RBAC, provisioned SCUs and an Agent ID identity, and the auto-resolve tuning rule for that alert must be off. Analysts can teach it through feedback, once per alert.
HOOK: The agent decides what it is; humans decide what to do.

[253] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.9 (Investigate complex attacks, such as multi-stage, multi-domain, and lateral movement)
FRONT: Attack story tab on a Defender incident
BACK: #Combines the alert list with the incident graph showing scope, chronology and entity links | Play the graph over time; open any node to act on it
WHY: The attack story is the first stop for a multi-stage incident: the left side lists alerts in order and the graph on the right draws users, devices, mailboxes and files with the edges that connect them. Go hunt from a node runs entity-scoped queries such as all activity or related alerts. Exam clue: 'understand the sequence from the phishing email to the lateral movement on the server' is this tab, not the Alerts tab.

[254] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.9 (Investigate complex attacks, such as multi-stage, multi-domain, and lateral movement)
FRONT: How a multi-domain incident gets its severity and its alerts
BACK: #Severity equals the highest-severity alert inside it | Alerts from email, identity, endpoint, cloud apps and Sentinel are correlated by shared entities
WHY: Defender XDR builds incidents by linking alerts that share users, devices, files, IPs or mailboxes, regardless of which product raised them, so a single incident can carry Defender for Office 365, Defender for Identity and Defender for Endpoint alerts. Severity rolls up from the top alert but can be changed manually. When incidents merge, Defender may rename the incident, overwriting a custom name. Exam trap: lowering one alert's severity does not lower the incident unless it was the highest.

[255] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.9 (Investigate complex attacks, such as multi-stage, multi-domain, and lateral movement)
FRONT: Assets and Evidence and Response tabs on a complex incident
BACK: #Assets: devices, users, mailboxes, apps and cloud resources touched | Evidence and Response: every entity with a verdict (Malicious, Suspicious, Clean) and remediation status
WHY: Assets is the impact list, with inline actions such as initiate automated investigation on a device or open the identity page. Evidence and Response lists what the automated investigation judged and whether remediation is Pending approval, letting you approve or reject, open in Explorer or go hunt. On the exam, 'approve the pending soft delete for the malicious email entity' lives on Evidence and Response, while 'which servers were affected' is Assets.

[256] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.9 (Investigate complex attacks, such as multi-stage, multi-domain, and lateral movement)
FRONT: Tracing lateral movement across devices and users in an incident
BACK: #Pivot from a device node to its timeline, then from a user node to the identity page and attack paths | Investigate the SMB, RDP and remote-service events in the device timeline
WHY: A lateral-movement investigation alternates between the two entity types: the device page timeline shows the logon events and processes that moved the attacker, while the user page shows which other devices that account touched and its risk score. Defender for Identity alerts such as pass-the-ticket mark the hop. The exam expects the workflow rather than one button: graph, device timeline, identity page, then contain the user to stop further hops.

[257] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.9 (Investigate complex attacks, such as multi-stage, multi-domain, and lateral movement)
FRONT: Deception in Defender for Endpoint — decoy alerts in an incident
BACK: #Lures (fake accounts, hosts, files) planted on devices; any interaction raises a high-fidelity alert | Decoy activity in the attack story confirms an attacker is hands-on
WHY: Deception rules in Defender for Endpoint distribute decoy credentials and hosts; when an attacker reads the planted credential and tries to use it, the resulting alert has almost no benign explanation and lands in the incident alongside other evidence. During a complex investigation, a deception alert tells the analyst where the attacker currently is. Exam clue: 'detect lateral movement with minimal false positives' and 'lure' point to deception.
HOOK: If someone used the fake credentials, it was not an admin.

[258] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.10 (Manage security incidents by using case management)
FRONT: Case vs incident in the Defender portal
BACK: #Incident: correlated alert activity created automatically | Case: a SecOps work item holding tasks, evidence, comments, attachments and linked incidents
WHY: Cases live under the Cases page in the unified Defender portal and come in two kinds: incident cases created from an incident and generic cases created manually for work such as a threat hunt or a compliance request. A case tracks status, priority, assignee, tags, description, SLA policy and custom fields from a template. The exam frames it as 'track a long-running investigation spanning several incidents with ownership and due dates'.

[259] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.10 (Manage security incidents by using case management)
FRONT: Case tasks vs incident tasks
BACK: #Case tasks carry owner, due date, priority, status and closing notes inside the case | Sentinel incident tasks are a checklist on one incident, often added by automation rules
WHY: Both are to-do lists but at different scopes. Incident tasks are tied to a single Sentinel incident and are usually templated by automation rules or playbooks. Case tasks are richer, with assignment and due dates, and sit on a case that may link several incidents. Exam clue: 'assign the forensic image collection to a named analyst with a deadline and track it across the whole engagement' is a case task.

[260] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.10 (Manage security incidents by using case management)
FRONT: Who can create and manage cases
BACK: #Create and manage: Security operations / Alerts (manage) or Sentinel Responder | View only: Security data basics (read) or Sentinel Reader; templates and SLA need Core security settings (manage)
WHY: Permissions follow the unified RBAC model or the Sentinel Azure roles depending on tenant setup. Incident cases specifically use Security data read to view and Security data manage to edit. Configuring case templates, custom fields and SLA policies is an admin task requiring Core security settings (manage) or Sentinel Contributor. The exam will give you a role and ask whether the analyst can open, edit or configure cases.

[261] cat=xdrresp obj=2.1.10 (Manage security incidents by using case management)
FRONT: Prerequisite for case management
BACK: #The tenant must be onboarded to the Defender portal; cases do not exist in the Azure portal Sentinel experience | A connected Sentinel workspace is needed only for workspace-dependent scenarios
WHY: Case management is a unified security operations feature, so a SOC still working Sentinel purely from the Azure portal cannot use it. Once the tenant is in the Defender portal, cases work with or without a Sentinel workspace, and the workspace is only required when a scenario depends on Sentinel data. Exam stem: 'the Cases page is missing' is a portal-onboarding question, not a licensing one.

[262] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.1 (Investigate device timelines)
FRONT: Device timeline — what it shows
BACK: #Chronological events and alerts for one device: processes, network, files, registry, logons | Default window is the past 30 days; events retained per the tenant's policy
WHY: The Timeline tab on the device page is the raw-evidence view behind every endpoint alert. Each row is an event with its process, user and MITRE technique where applicable, and selecting a row opens a side pane with the process tree and related entities. Exam clue: 'determine what happened on the device in the minutes before the alert' is the timeline, not the alert page.

[263] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.1 (Investigate device timelines)
FRONT: Device timeline filters — Data type and Event group
BACK: #Data type toggles Events versus Techniques; Event group narrows by category | Flagged events filter shows only rows you marked
WHY: The filter pane reduces a 30-day stream to the slices that matter: Techniques shows only rows tagged with ATT&CK IDs, Event group selects categories such as process, network or registry, and the time bar narrows the window. Combined with the search box this is how you find a specific file name or command line. On the exam, 'show only the MITRE techniques observed on the host' means set Data type to Techniques.

[264] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.1 (Investigate device timelines)
FRONT: Flag an event in the device timeline
BACK: #Mark important rows with the flag column, then filter to Flagged events | Builds a clean breach timeline for the report
WHY: Flagging is per-event and per-device; it does not create a Sentinel bookmark or change the event. Analysts flag the initial access, persistence and lateral movement rows as they find them, then enable the Flagged events filter to review the attack as a sequence or hand it to a colleague. The exam phrases it as 'highlight key events for a handover without exporting everything'.

[265] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.1 (Investigate device timelines)
FRONT: Hunt for related events from the timeline
BACK: #Side-pane button that generates an advanced hunting query around the selected event | Returns the event and what happened nearby on that device
WHY: Rather than hand-writing a query, selecting an event or technique and choosing Hunt for related events opens advanced hunting with a prebuilt KQL covering the same device and a time window around the event. From a Technique pane the query returns surrounding events but excludes the technique row itself. Exam clue: 'quickly pivot from a timeline entry to a query you can extend' is this button, not Go hunt on the incident graph.

[266] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.1 (Investigate device timelines)
FRONT: Export the device timeline
BACK: #Export to CSV for a chosen date or range, up to seven days at a time | Used for offline analysis or evidence preservation
WHY: The export button on the timeline toolbar writes the visible events with their full details to CSV. Because the span per export is capped at seven days, a 30-day investigation needs several exports or an advanced hunting query instead. Events are retained per the tenant's data retention setting (180 days by default) unless a connected Sentinel workspace extends it. On the exam, 'preserve device events beyond the retention period' means export or stream to a workspace.

[267] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.1 (Investigate device timelines)
FRONT: Process tree in the timeline side pane
BACK: #Parent-child chain for the selected event, with copyable hashes and command lines | Related entities drawn as a small graph
WHY: Selecting a process event opens a pane showing who spawned what, the command line, SHA1 and the user context, with a copy icon for each artefact so you can pivot to the file page or a hunting query. The same tree appears on the alert page as the alert story. Exam clue: 'identify the parent process that launched the malicious script' is answered from this pane.

[268] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.1 (Investigate device timelines)
FRONT: Device page tabs beyond the timeline
BACK: #Overview, Alerts, Timeline, Security recommendations, Software inventory, Discovered vulnerabilities, Missing KBs | Overview holds tags, risk level, exposure level and logged-on users
WHY: The device page is the pivot hub for endpoint response: the Overview card shows domain, OS, health, risk and exposure, the Alerts tab lists detections, and the posture tabs show recommendations, installed software, CVEs and missing updates from Defender Vulnerability Management. Response actions sit on the top bar. On the exam, 'check whether the exploited CVE is present on the host' is the Discovered vulnerabilities tab.

[269] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.1 (Investigate device timelines)
FRONT: MITRE Technique column in the timeline
BACK: #Rows tagged with ATT&CK technique ID and name in bold with a blue icon | Side pane links to tactics, description and the MITRE page
WHY: Techniques are derived rows: Defender for Endpoint infers them from telemetry even when no alert fired, so the timeline can show T1053 scheduled task creation for a benign script. They are searchable and exportable like events. The exam uses this to test that technique rows are context, not detections; a technique on the timeline does not mean an alert exists.

[270] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.2 (Perform actions on the device, including live response and collecting investigation packages)
FRONT: Full isolation vs selective isolation
BACK: #Full: cuts all network traffic except the Defender for Endpoint connection | Selective: keeps Outlook, Teams and admin-defined exclusions reachable
WHY: Isolate device is the fastest containment: the sensor stays connected so you can still run live response and release later. Selective isolation lets the user keep working in Outlook and Teams and honours process and destination exclusions, which is the usual choice for an executive laptop during a low-confidence alert. Isolation lifts automatically after seven days. Exam clue: 'contain without stopping the user's email' is selective.
HOOK: Full isolation = only Defender talks; selective = plus Outlook/Teams.

[271] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.2 (Perform actions on the device, including live response and collecting investigation packages)
FRONT: Release from isolation and isolation retries
BACK: #Release from isolation button on the device page; also undoable from the Action center | If the device is offline, the isolation request is retried for up to three days
WHY: Isolation is one of the two actions the Action center explicitly lists as undoable, together with restrict code execution. If the device was off when you clicked Isolate, the sensor applies it when it next checks in within the retry window, and the Action center shows the pending state. On the exam, 'the user reports they can work again after a week' is the automatic seven-day lift, not a failed action.

[272] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.2 (Perform actions on the device, including live response and collecting investigation packages)
FRONT: Restrict app execution — the mechanism
BACK: #Applies a Windows Defender Application Control policy allowing only Microsoft-signed binaries | Reversible with Remove app restrictions; needs Defender Antivirus active
WHY: Rather than cutting the network, restrict app execution stops the attacker's tooling from running by enforcing a code-integrity policy on the device. The user is notified on Windows 10 and 11 (not on older servers) and the device remains fully connected, so it suits cases where the host must stay online. Exam clue: 'prevent the malware from executing while keeping the server reachable' is restrict app execution, not isolation.

[273] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.2 (Perform actions on the device, including live response and collecting investigation packages)
FRONT: Run antivirus scan from the device page
BACK: #Quick or Full scan launched remotely; results arrive as alerts and in the Action center | Works even when Defender Antivirus is in passive mode alongside another AV
WHY: The scan action is the lightest-touch response and is included in Plan 1. Quick scan checks common malware locations; Full scan walks the whole disk and is throttled by the average CPU load factor (default 50 percent). Detections found create new alerts and the action appears in the device timeline. On the exam it is the answer when the question says the SOC wants to confirm a device is clean without disrupting the user.

[274] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.2 (Perform actions on the device, including live response and collecting investigation packages)
FRONT: Collect investigation package — what is inside (Windows)
BACK: #Autoruns, Installed programs, Network connections, Prefetch files, Processes, Scheduled tasks, Security event log | SMB sessions, System information, Temp directories, Users and groups, WdSupportLogs, CollectionSummaryReport
WHY: The package is a zip of forensic snapshots gathered by the sensor, downloadable from the device page or the Action center entry 'Package collection available'. Network connections holds ActiveNetConnections, Arp, DnsCache, IpConfig and firewall logs; the security event log opens in Event Viewer; CollectionSummaryReport lists what succeeded. Collection can fail on low battery or a metered connection. Exam clue: 'retrieve persistence artefacts without a live session' is this action.
HOOK: Package = snapshot to download; live response = interactive shell.

[275] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.2 (Perform actions on the device, including live response and collecting investigation packages)
FRONT: Live response — session limits
BACK: #Up to 50 concurrent sessions per tenant and 5 per user; one device per session | Session times out after 30 minutes of inactivity
WHY: Live response gives an interactive shell over the Defender for Endpoint channel, enabled in Settings, Endpoints, Advanced features, with a separate toggle for servers. Individual commands time out after 10 minutes, extended to 30 for getfile, findfile and run. The numbers appear on the exam as distractors, so remember 50 and 5. Unsigned PowerShell scripts need the dedicated unsigned script execution setting.
HOOK: 50 sessions, 5 per analyst, 30 idle minutes.

[276] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.2 (Perform actions on the device, including live response and collecting investigation packages)
FRONT: Live response basic commands — getfile, findfile, fileinfo
BACK: #getfile downloads a file (up to 3 GB); findfile locates by name; fileinfo returns metadata | All three work on Windows, macOS and Linux
WHY: These are the evidence-gathering trio. getfile pulls the suspicious binary into the portal for analysis, findfile searches the disk for a name pattern, and fileinfo returns hashes, size and timestamps without transferring the file. The exam often orders these in a drag-and-drop with putfile and remediate. Note that getfile may be followed by Submit for deep analysis from the file page.

[277] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.2 (Perform actions on the device, including live response and collecting investigation packages)
FRONT: Live response — processes, connections, registry, persistence
BACK: #processes lists running processes; connections lists active sockets; registry reads values; persistence lists autostart points | connections, registry and persistence are Windows-only
WHY: Triage commands show the live state that an investigation package only snapshots. processes is cross-platform; connections, drivers, registry, scheduledtasks, services, startupfolders and persistence exist only on Windows. A stem that mentions a macOS device and asks which command is unavailable is testing this platform matrix. Pair these with analyze on a suspicious entity to get an incrimination verdict.

[278] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.2 (Perform actions on the device, including live response and collecting investigation packages)
FRONT: Live response advanced commands — run, putfile, library
BACK: #library lists scripts uploaded to the tenant library; putfile copies one to the device; run executes it | Unsigned PowerShell needs the unsigned script execution setting
WHY: Scripts are not typed into the session; they are uploaded once to the live response library (250 MB limit, 5 MB in US Government clouds), then referenced by run or putfile from any session. putfile is limited to 300 MB on Windows. The exam's ordering question usually goes: enable live response, upload script to library, connect, run script, review output.

[279] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.2 (Perform actions on the device, including live response and collecting investigation packages)
FRONT: Live response — remediate and undo
BACK: #remediate removes an entity: delete file, stop process or service, delete registry entry | undo restores the remediated entity (Windows only)
WHY: remediate is the in-session equivalent of an automated investigation action, applied to a file path, process ID, service or registry key you have already examined with analyze or fileinfo. undo reverses it if you were wrong. Every command runs under the device's system context and is logged to the Action center History tab. Exam clue: 'remove the persistence key immediately from the shell' is remediate.

[280] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.2 (Perform actions on the device, including live response and collecting investigation packages)
FRONT: Live response — isolate, release, scan, collect (macOS and Linux)
BACK: #On macOS and Linux the session offers isolate, release, scan and collect | On Windows those are done from the device page instead
WHY: The command set differs by platform: Windows sessions have analyze, remediate and undo, while macOS and Linux sessions expose isolate and release (macOS), scan and collect so a single session can contain and gather forensics. The exam uses the matrix for 'which command is NOT available on this OS' items. Remember collect on macOS or Linux produces a forensics package similar to the Windows investigation package.

[281] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.2 (Perform actions on the device, including live response and collecting investigation packages)
FRONT: Initiate automated investigation from the device page
BACK: #Starts an AIR investigation scoped to the device and its recent alerts | Verdicts and pending remediations appear in the Investigations and Action center
WHY: Automated investigation normally starts from an alert, but the device page button lets an analyst request one on a device with suspicious telemetry and no alert, for example after a user report. The investigation evaluates files and processes and queues remediations according to the device group's automation level. Note Microsoft announced that AIR for Defender for Endpoint stops running as a separate experience from September 2026; the Office 365 AIR remains.

[282] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.2 (Perform actions on the device, including live response and collecting investigation packages)
FRONT: Consult a threat expert and manage tags from the device page
BACK: #Consult a threat expert opens an Endpoint Attack Notifications or Experts on Demand request with device context | Manage tags adds labels used for device groups and filtering
WHY: Both actions sit in the response bar but are not containment. Consult a threat expert requires the Defender Experts service to be set up; the request carries the device and alert context. Manage tags sets the device tag that drives device-group membership and therefore automation level and RBAC scope, so tagging a compromised host 'IR-hold' can move it into a group with full automation. Exam clue: 'change which automation level applies to a device' is a tag plus group.

[283] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.2 (Perform actions on the device, including live response and collecting investigation packages)
FRONT: Action center — Pending vs History
BACK: #Pending: remediations waiting for approval; History: everything executed, manual or automated | Supports approve, reject and undo for isolate and restrict code execution
WHY: The unified Action center under Actions and submissions spans Defender for Endpoint and Defender for Office 365. Pending holds AIR recommendations and proposed email remediations, grouped so you can approve several of one type at once; History records live response commands, scans, isolation and email soft deletes with who did them and when, exportable to CSV. Exam clue: 'find out who isolated the server last night' is History.

[284] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.3 (Perform evidence and entity investigation)
FRONT: File page — prevalence and the Observed in organization section
BACK: #Shows how many devices saw the file in the last six months and worldwide prevalence | Lists devices with first and last seen, execution status and initiating process
WHY: Prevalence is the fastest way to size an incident: a file seen on three devices is contained differently from one seen on three thousand. Values are scoped by RBAC, so analysts with narrower device-group visibility see smaller numbers. The page also shows VirusTotal ratio, incidents and alerts, file names and, for PE files, strings, imports and capabilities mapped to ATT&CK. Exam clue: 'determine how widespread the malware is' is this page.

[285] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.3 (Perform evidence and entity investigation)
FRONT: Deep analysis on the file page
BACK: #Detonates a PE file in a Microsoft sandbox and reports behaviour in about ten minutes | Submit for deep analysis; results show process, network, file and registry activity
WHY: Deep analysis is the behavioural counterpart to the static file page: Microsoft runs the file in an isolated environment and lists what it did, including dropped files and contacted hosts. It needs a copy of the file, so the file must have been collected from a device first (Collect file or getfile). The exam contrasts it with Copilot file analysis, which reasons about the file without detonation.

[286] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.3 (Perform evidence and entity investigation)
FRONT: Stop and quarantine file vs add indicator
BACK: #Stop and quarantine: kills the process and quarantines the file on devices now | Add indicator: hash-based block or allow applied going forward across the org
WHY: Both live on the file page. Stop and quarantine is a one-time response on devices where the file is currently running or present; the indicator is a policy that prevents future execution (or exempts it) and can be scoped to device groups with an expiry. For a confirmed-malicious hash you usually do both. Exam clue: 'ensure the file cannot run on any device in future' is the indicator, not quarantine.

[287] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.3 (Perform evidence and entity investigation)
FRONT: User page from an endpoint alert
BACK: #Overview with risk score, Entra and AD details, devices signed into, alerts grouped by severity | Timeline tab plus actions such as require sign-in again or disable in AD
WHY: When an alert names a user, selecting the entity opens the identity page that merges Defender for Identity, Entra ID and cloud-app context. Analysts check which other devices the account touched and its risk score before deciding whether the alert is a device problem or an account problem. Exam clue: 'the same user triggered alerts on several devices' means pivot to the user page and consider account containment.

[288] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.3 (Perform evidence and entity investigation)
FRONT: IP, URL and domain entity pages
BACK: #Show prevalence, alerts, devices that communicated with the entity and threat intelligence | Add indicator lets you block the IP, URL or domain across devices
WHY: Opening an IP or URL from the alert story reveals which devices connected, when, and whether Microsoft threat intelligence or Defender Threat Intelligence knows it. From the same page an indicator can block the destination via network protection, which needs the Defender Antivirus network protection feature on. Exam clue: 'stop every device from reaching the command-and-control domain' is a domain indicator.

[289] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.3 (Perform evidence and entity investigation)
FRONT: Alert page — alert story and Manage alert
BACK: #Alert story is the process tree with every related entity clickable | Manage alert sets status (New, In progress, Resolved), classification, assignee and comments
WHY: The alert page is where tier-1 works before escalating to the incident: expand the story to see parent processes and files, use the ellipsis on an entity to act, then update the Manage alert pane. Alerts can be linked to another incident or moved. On the exam, 'resolve the alert as a false positive and prevent the same alert for this scheduled task' combines Manage alert with Tune alert.

[290] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.3 (Perform evidence and entity investigation)
FRONT: Alert classification and determination in Defender XDR
BACK: #True positive, Informational expected activity, False positive, each with a determination | True positive determinations include Malware, Phishing, Compromised account, Multistage attack
WHY: Unlike Sentinel's four-way classification, Defender XDR uses three classifications and a determination list: True positive (multistage attack, malicious user activity, compromised account, malware, phishing, unwanted software, other), Informational expected activity (security testing, line-of-business application, confirmed activity, other), and False positive (not malicious, not enough data to validate, other). The exam may show a red-team scenario and expect Informational with Security testing.
HOOK: Defender: three classes plus a reason; Sentinel: four classes.

[291] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.3 (Perform evidence and entity investigation)
FRONT: Tune alert — hide, resolve or set as behavior
BACK: #Alert tuning rules match evidence conditions and then hide the alert, auto-resolve it, or convert it to a behavior | Hide prevents incident creation (Defender for Endpoint alerts only)
WHY: Created from the alert page or Settings, a tuning rule names evidence such as a file hash, command line, process or scheduled task, with AND/OR grouping, and applies to future alerts matching those conditions. Set as behavior keeps the signal hunting-visible in the behaviors tables without an alert. Exam clue: 'the backup agent's script triggers the same alert daily' is a tuning rule, not a Defender for Cloud suppression rule.

[292] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.3 (Perform evidence and entity investigation)
FRONT: Collect file and download file for evidence
BACK: #Collect file asks the sensor to upload the sample; Download file retrieves it from the portal | Needed before deep analysis or offline reverse engineering
WHY: Not every observed file is stored by Microsoft; if the file page lacks a sample, Collect file requests it from a device where it exists, after which Download file (password-protected archive) and Submit for deep analysis become available. The alternative is getfile in a live response session. Exam clue: 'deep analysis is greyed out' means the sample has not been collected yet.

[293] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.4 (Investigate and remediate incidents identified by automatic attack disruption)
FRONT: Automatic attack disruption — what it is
BACK: #High-confidence, cross-signal containment that acts before an analyst does | Incident gets an Attack Disruption tag and a yellow banner listing the actions
WHY: Attack disruption correlates endpoint, identity, email and SaaS signals into an incident with very high confidence, then contains the assets the attacker is using so lateral movement and remote encryption stop. It targets scenarios such as human-operated ransomware and business email compromise. The security team retains control because every action appears in the Action center and can be undone. Exam clue: 'the account was disabled before anyone in the SOC looked at the incident'.
HOOK: Disruption acts first; the SOC reviews and releases.

[294] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.4 (Investigate and remediate incidents identified by automatic attack disruption)
FRONT: Contain device vs isolate device under attack disruption
BACK: #Contain device: every onboarded device blocks traffic from the suspicious host, even if it is not onboarded | Isolate device: the compromised onboarded device itself is cut off
WHY: Containment works from the outside in: a policy pushed to all onboarded devices refuses communication from the contained device or IP, which is how Defender stops an unmanaged attacker machine it cannot isolate. Isolation works on the compromised device directly. Contain IP is the variant for undiscovered devices. Exam clue: 'the attacker's laptop is not onboarded' means contain device or contain IP.

[295] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.4 (Investigate and remediate incidents identified by automatic attack disruption)
FRONT: Contain user under attack disruption
BACK: #Temporarily blocks a suspicious identity's authentication, file and network access on all onboarded devices | Complements Disable user (AD via Defender for Identity) and Suspend user (Entra ID)
WHY: Contain user does not touch the directory; it tells every onboarded device to reject that account's SMB, RDP and other remote activity, stopping lateral movement while the account still technically exists. Disable user is the directory-side action executed by the Defender for Identity sensor on a domain controller, and Suspend user in Entra ID and Revoke user session are the cloud equivalents. Exam items ask which action is taken by which product.
HOOK: Contain = endpoints refuse the user; disable = the directory refuses.

[296] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.4 (Investigate and remediate incidents identified by automatic attack disruption)
FRONT: Where to review and undo attack disruption actions
BACK: #Action center History lists each automatic action; undo or release from the device/user page | Incident Activities tab shows policy status with provider Attack disruption
WHY: After confirming that an account was cleaned or a device rebuilt, the analyst releases containment from the entity page or undoes the action from the Action center, and the incident banner updates. The Activities tab filter Provider: Attack disruption with Policy status Active, Inactive or No status shows what is still enforced. Exam clue: 'the user still cannot sign in after remediation' means a disruption action is still active and must be undone.

[297] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.4 (Investigate and remediate incidents identified by automatic attack disruption)
FRONT: Excluding assets from automatic attack disruption
BACK: #Exclusions can be set for specific users, devices and IP addresses | Used for critical infrastructure accounts that must never be auto-contained
WHY: Attack disruption is on by default for eligible tenants, and Microsoft recommends leaving it on, but domain controllers, break-glass accounts and service accounts for backups may be excluded so an automatic disable does not take down production. Exclusions are configured in the Defender settings for automated response. On the exam, 'ensure the SQL service account is never disabled automatically' is an exclusion, not a tuning rule.

[298] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.4 (Investigate and remediate incidents identified by automatic attack disruption)
FRONT: Prerequisites for attack disruption actions
BACK: #Device actions need Defender for Endpoint; user disable needs Defender for Identity with action accounts | Entra actions need the Entra integration; exclusions and automation level must allow it
WHY: Disruption can only act through the products that are in place: no Defender for Identity sensor on a DC means no automatic Disable user in AD, and no onboarded devices means no contain device. Device groups set to no automated response also block it. Exam stems describe a tenant with Defender for Endpoint but no Defender for Identity and ask why only the device was contained.

[299] cat=dferesp obj=2.2.4 (Investigate and remediate incidents identified by automatic attack disruption)
FRONT: Attack disruption vs automated investigation and response
BACK: #Disruption: immediate containment of attacker assets on high-confidence incidents, no approval | AIR: evidence-by-evidence investigation with remediations that usually await approval
WHY: Both are automatic but they answer different questions. AIR asks 'is this file or email malicious?' and queues a remediation per entity according to the device group's automation level. Attack disruption asks 'is this an active attack?' and contains the user or device as a whole. The exam tests the approval difference: AIR actions sit in Pending; disruption actions are already done and sit in History.
HOOK: AIR waits for a thumbs-up; disruption asks forgiveness.

[300] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.1 (Investigate threats by using Microsoft Purview Audit)
FRONT: Audit (Standard) — retention and scope
BACK: #180 days of retention, on by default for eligible tenants | No retention policies, no high-value events
WHY: Audit (Standard) records user and admin activity across Exchange, SharePoint, OneDrive, Teams, Entra and more, searchable in the Purview portal, via Search-UnifiedAuditLog and the Management Activity API. Retention moved from 90 to 180 days in October 2023 and cannot be extended at this tier. Exam stem: 'the investigation needs events from eight months ago on an E3 tenant' is a Standard limitation.
HOOK: Standard = 180 days, no knobs.

[301] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.1 (Investigate threats by using Microsoft Purview Audit)
FRONT: Audit (Premium) — retention and extras
BACK: #One year by default for Exchange, SharePoint and Entra records; up to ten years with the add-on | Adds retention policies and high-value events such as MailItemsAccessed
WHY: Premium comes with E5-class licensing and keeps Exchange, SharePoint and Entra audit records for a year (other workloads stay at 180 days) with a per-user 10-Year Audit Log Retention add-on available. Audit log retention policies can lengthen retention per workload, activity or user. It also roughly doubles Management Activity API bandwidth. Exam clue: 'retain audit records for seven years for regulators' is Premium plus the add-on and a retention policy.
HOOK: Premium = a year by default, a decade with the add-on.

[302] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.1 (Investigate threats by using Microsoft Purview Audit)
FRONT: MailItemsAccessed — why it matters
BACK: #Premium audit event recording that a mailbox item was read or bound to | Key evidence for scoping a mailbox compromise
WHY: Without MailItemsAccessed an investigator knows an attacker signed in but not which messages they opened; with it, each sync or bind operation is logged with the session and client. Other premium events include Send and the Teams message events. Exam clue: 'prove which emails the attacker read after the account takeover' requires Audit (Premium) and this record type.
HOOK: MailItemsAccessed = what they read, not just that they logged in.

[303] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.1 (Investigate threats by using Microsoft Purview Audit)
FRONT: Audit search in the Purview portal — filters
BACK: #Date range (UTC, max 180 days), activities by friendly or operation name, users, file/folder/site, record types, workloads, keyword | Admin units scope results for restricted admins
WHY: Searches run as asynchronous jobs that keep going if you close the browser, up to ten in parallel per account (only one unfiltered), and finished jobs are kept for 30 days. Results can be exported to CSV (50,000 rows on Standard, up to a million on Premium). Exchange, SharePoint and Teams events typically appear within 60 to 90 minutes. Exam clue: 'find who downloaded files from a SharePoint site last week' is this tool.

[304] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.1 (Investigate threats by using Microsoft Purview Audit)
FRONT: Roles required to search the audit log
BACK: #Audit Logs role or View-Only Audit Logs role in Purview | Assigned through role groups such as Audit Manager or Audit Reader
WHY: Audit search is not open to every security reader. The View-Only Audit Logs role suffices for searching and exporting; the Audit Logs role adds the ability to manage audit configuration such as retention policies. Restricted administrators can only see events inside their administrative units. On the exam, 'the analyst gets an access denied message in audit search' is answered by assigning one of these roles.

[305] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.1 (Investigate threats by using Microsoft Purview Audit)
FRONT: Search-UnifiedAuditLog — key parameters
BACK: #StartDate and EndDate are required; filter with UserIds, Operations, RecordType, ObjectIds, IPAddresses, FreeText | Default 100 results; ResultSize up to 5,000; SessionCommand ReturnLargeSet up to 50,000
KQL:
    Search-UnifiedAuditLog -StartDate 09/01/2026 -EndDate 09/08/2026 `
      -UserIds ana@fabrikam.com -Operations MailItemsAccessed `
      -SessionId "ir-0421" -SessionCommand ReturnLargeSet
WHY: The cmdlet runs in Exchange Online PowerShell and returns records whose details live in the AuditData JSON property, which you parse with ConvertFrom-Json. Large pulls use a SessionId and ReturnLargeSet, re-running the same command to page through up to 50,000 records. Microsoft steers production integrations to the Management Activity API. Exam clue: 'script the export of one user's mailbox activity' is this cmdlet.

[306] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.1 (Investigate threats by using Microsoft Purview Audit)
FRONT: Audit log retention policies
BACK: #Premium feature that sets retention per record type, activity or user, up to ten years | Useful for keeping privileged-user or Exchange events longer than the default
WHY: A retention policy has a name, priority, the record types or activities it covers, optional users, and a duration. Higher-priority policies win when several match. They do not shorten retention below the default. Because they are Premium-only, the exam uses them to test licensing: an E3 tenant asked to keep SharePoint events for two years must first obtain Premium.

[307] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.1 (Investigate threats by using Microsoft Purview Audit)
FRONT: Delay before audit events are searchable
BACK: #Most Exchange, SharePoint, OneDrive and Teams events appear within 60 to 90 minutes | Other workloads may take longer; Microsoft publishes no SLA
WHY: Audit records are collected from each service and written to the unified log asynchronously, so an investigation launched minutes after an incident may find nothing yet. The right move is to wait or use real-time sources such as Defender advanced hunting. Exam clue: 'the activity happened ten minutes ago and audit search returns nothing' is latency, not a missing license.

[308] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.1 (Investigate threats by using Microsoft Purview Audit)
FRONT: Audit search job behaviour
BACK: #Jobs run asynchronously, up to 10 per admin at once, kept for 30 days, and can be named | Large-tenant jobs can take up to 48 hours
WHY: Because searches are jobs, an analyst can start several scoped queries, close the browser and return to the results list. Only one unfiltered job may run at a time, so a broad 'everything for 180 days' search blocks a second broad one. Export runs from the completed job. On the exam, 'the search seems stuck' usually means a large unfiltered job; narrow the activity and user filters.

[309] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.1 (Investigate threats by using Microsoft Purview Audit)
FRONT: Audit vs Defender advanced hunting for M365 activity
BACK: #Purview Audit: authoritative, long-retained, compliance-grade record of all workloads | Advanced hunting CloudAppEvents: 30 days, KQL, joinable with device and email tables
WHY: CloudAppEvents in Defender XDR mirrors much of the Office 365 audit stream for 30 days and is the faster tool for correlating a SharePoint download with a device alert. Purview Audit is the system of record with 180-day or longer retention, export and legal defensibility. Exam clue: 'correlate the file download with the endpoint process that performed it' is advanced hunting; 'produce a record for legal' is Audit.

[310] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.2 (Investigate threats by using Content search in Microsoft Purview eDiscovery)
FRONT: Content search in the new Purview eDiscovery — where it lives
BACK: #Searches are created inside an eDiscovery case in the Purview portal | Classic Content search and classic Standard and Premium retired August 31, 2025
WHY: The old standalone Content search page no longer exists for most tenants; investigators create a case and then a search within it, using the query builder or KQL editor against mailboxes, OneDrive, SharePoint sites, Teams and Microsoft 365 groups. The exam has moved with the product, so 'create a search to find messages with a subject' expects the unified experience. 21Vianet tenants are the only exception.

[311] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.2 (Investigate threats by using Content search in Microsoft Purview eDiscovery)
FRONT: Building a content search query
BACK: #Keywords and KQL with properties such as from, subject, sent, filetype | Conditions narrow by date, sender, participants, file type or sensitivity label
KQL:
    subject:"invoice" AND from:ana@fabrikam.com AND sent>=2026-09-01
WHY: Search queries use Keyword Query Language, so AND, OR, NOT, parentheses and property restrictions work. Conditions are added as cards that AND with the keywords. A common exam pattern is a question that lists a goal (find all messages with an attachment of a certain name sent in a window) and asks for the query or condition set. Statistics let you estimate size before exporting.

[312] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.2 (Investigate threats by using Content search in Microsoft Purview eDiscovery)
FRONT: Search locations in eDiscovery
BACK: #Exchange mailboxes (including group and Teams mailboxes), SharePoint and OneDrive sites, Microsoft 365 groups | Can target specific users or all locations
WHY: Teams chats are stored in user mailboxes and channel messages in group mailboxes, so a Teams investigation selects those mailboxes and the team's SharePoint site. Searching all mailboxes is possible but slow and may hit result limits, so investigators scope by custodian. On the exam, 'find the Teams message a user sent in a private chat' means search the user's mailbox.

[313] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.2 (Investigate threats by using Content search in Microsoft Purview eDiscovery)
FRONT: Statistics, sample and export on a search
BACK: #Generate statistics shows item counts, size and locations; sample previews a subset | Export delivers results for download; Premium can add them to a review set instead
WHY: Running statistics first lets you refine the query without pulling data; the sample shows real items for a sanity check. Export produces downloadable content (the separate eDiscovery Export tool retired in 2025). Premium's review set adds culling, tagging and redaction. Exam clue: 'confirm the query scope before exporting gigabytes' is statistics and sample.

[314] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.2 (Investigate threats by using Content search in Microsoft Purview eDiscovery)
FRONT: eDiscovery holds
BACK: #Preserve content in selected locations so deletion does not remove it from search | Full hold on a location or query-based hold on matching items
WHY: A hold does not stop the user working; it keeps copies of deleted or edited items in Recoverable Items or the preservation hold library until the hold is released. Investigators place a hold at the start of a case so a suspect cannot destroy evidence, then search the held locations. On the exam, 'ensure the user cannot delete the messages before legal reviews them' is a hold, not a retention label.

[315] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.2 (Investigate threats by using Content search in Microsoft Purview eDiscovery)
FRONT: eDiscovery Standard vs Premium
BACK: #Standard: cases, searches, holds, export | Premium: adds custodians, review sets, analytics, communications and EDRM-style workflow
WHY: Standard covers the typical SOC investigation: scope, search, preserve and export. Premium is aimed at legal matters and adds custodian management, legal hold notifications, review sets stored in Azure, near-duplicate detection, tagging and redaction, with Insider Risk cases able to escalate into Premium. The exam tests licensing: review sets require Premium (E5), search and export do not.

[316] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.2 (Investigate threats by using Content search in Microsoft Purview eDiscovery)
FRONT: eDiscovery Manager vs eDiscovery Administrator
BACK: #Both are subgroups of the eDiscovery Manager role group | Manager works only cases they are a member of; Administrator can access every case and manage members
WHY: Adding a user to the eDiscovery Manager role group grants search, hold and export rights, but a Manager only sees the cases they created or were added to. The eDiscovery Administrator subgroup sees all cases in the organisation and can add or remove members. Organization Management can also create Standard cases. Exam clue: 'an investigator cannot see a case created by a colleague' means they are a Manager, not an Administrator.

[317] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.2 (Investigate threats by using Content search in Microsoft Purview eDiscovery)
FRONT: Content search vs Purview Audit — which tool when
BACK: #Content search finds the content of messages and files | Audit finds the activity around them: who accessed, shared, deleted
WHY: Investigators use both in sequence: Audit shows that an attacker ran an inbox rule and forwarded mail, then a content search retrieves the forwarded messages for review. A stem that asks for the text of a phishing email delivered to 40 users is a content search; a stem that asks who opened it is Audit (with MailItemsAccessed on Premium).

[318] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.3 (Investigate threats by using Microsoft Graph activity logs)
FRONT: Microsoft Graph activity logs — what they contain
BACK: #An audit trail of every HTTP request to Microsoft Graph for the tenant | Apps, SDKs, AI clients and Microsoft first-party apps alike
WHY: Sign-in logs tell you a token was issued; Graph activity logs tell you what the token was then used for: which endpoints were called, by which app and user, from which IP and with what response code. That makes them the primary source for token-theft and malicious OAuth app investigations. Exam clue: 'determine which mailboxes an abused application enumerated through the API' is this log.

[319] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.3 (Investigate threats by using Microsoft Graph activity logs)
FRONT: Enabling Graph activity logs and where they land
BACK: #Diagnostic settings on Microsoft Entra ID routed to Log Analytics, Storage or Event Hubs | Table name in Log Analytics: MicrosoftGraphActivityLogs
WHY: The log is a category in the Entra ID diagnostic settings blade, like SignInLogs and AuditLogs, so it needs an Azure subscription and a destination. Log Analytics is the recommended target for KQL analysis and Sentinel; Event Hubs feeds third-party SIEMs. Ingestion cannot be filtered in the diagnostic setting, so volume is controlled by workspace transformations. Exam clue: 'the table is empty' usually means the diagnostic setting was never created.

[320] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.3 (Investigate threats by using Microsoft Graph activity logs)
FRONT: Licensing and role to turn on Graph activity logs
BACK: #Microsoft Entra ID P1 or P2 license on the tenant | Security Administrator or higher to configure the diagnostic setting
WHY: Collection is gated on a premium Entra license, and the person creating the diagnostic setting needs an Entra administrator role plus permissions on the Azure destination resources. Delivery latency is typically under 30 minutes but can reach two hours. On the exam, a Free-tier tenant asking why Graph activity logs are unavailable is a licensing question, not a permissions one.

[321] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.3 (Investigate threats by using Microsoft Graph activity logs)
FRONT: Key columns in MicrosoftGraphActivityLogs
BACK: #RequestUri, RequestMethod, ResponseStatusCode, UserId, ServicePrincipalId, AppId, IPAddress | Also DurationMs, ResponseSizeBytes, ClientAuthMethod, TimeGenerated
KQL:
    MicrosoftGraphActivityLogs
    | where AppId == "<suspect-app-id>"
    | summarize count() by RequestUri, ResponseStatusCode, IPAddress
WHY: A hunt for an abused app groups requests by AppId and RequestUri to see whether it walked /users, /me/messages or /groups, then checks ResponseStatusCode for 200 versus 403 or 429 throttling. UserId identifies delegated calls; ServicePrincipalId with an empty UserId identifies application-only calls. ClientAuthMethod shows whether a secret or certificate was used. Exam items present a few rows and ask what the app was doing.

[322] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.3 (Investigate threats by using Microsoft Graph activity logs)
FRONT: Graph activity logs vs Entra sign-in logs
BACK: #Sign-in logs: authentication events and token issuance | Graph activity logs: the API calls made with those tokens afterwards
WHY: The two are complementary and are commonly joined on the user or app identifier to build a full story: a risky sign-in followed by hundreds of /users requests is a reconnaissance pattern. Sign-in logs exist on every tenant; Graph activity logs need P1 or P2 and a diagnostic setting. Exam clue: 'the sign-in looked normal but data was exfiltrated via the API' is only visible in the Graph activity log.

[323] cat=m365inv obj=2.3.3 (Investigate threats by using Microsoft Graph activity logs)
FRONT: Sensitive data caveat in Graph activity logs
BACK: #Request details are logged as sent; secrets or tokens placed in a URI become visible to workspace readers | Multi-tenant apps only see their own tenant's calls
WHY: Because the log captures the request URI and metadata, any poorly built app that passes credentials in query strings leaks them into the workspace, so access to the table should be limited and reviewed. The log also cannot show activity in other tenants even for a multi-tenant app. The exam uses this for a least-privilege question about who should be able to read the table.

[324] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which table — a new process started on an endpoint (command line, parent)
BACK: #DeviceProcessEvents | ActionType ProcessCreated; ProcessCommandLine, FileName, SHA1 | InitiatingProcess* columns describe the parent
KQL:
    DeviceProcessEvents
    | where FileName =~ 'powershell.exe'
    | where ProcessCommandLine has_any ('-enc','DownloadString')
    | project Timestamp, DeviceName, ProcessCommandLine, InitiatingProcessFileName
WHY: DeviceProcessEvents is the Defender for Endpoint table that records process creation. The created process is described by FileName, FolderPath, ProcessCommandLine, the hash columns and ProcessTokenElevation, while every InitiatingProcess* column describes the parent that launched it. Stems about 'suspicious command line', 'living-off-the-land binary' or 'child process of Word' point here rather than at DeviceEvents.
HOOK: Process born = DeviceProcessEvents; the parent lives in InitiatingProcess*.

[325] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which table — outbound connections from a device to an IP, port or URL
BACK: #DeviceNetworkEvents | RemoteIP, RemotePort, RemoteUrl, LocalIP, Protocol, RemoteIPType | ActionType ConnectionSuccess / ConnectionFailed / InboundConnectionAccepted
KQL:
    DeviceNetworkEvents
    | where RemoteIPType == 'Public' and RemotePort in (4444, 8443)
    | summarize count() by DeviceName, RemoteIP, InitiatingProcessFileName
WHY: DeviceNetworkEvents captures network connections observed by the endpoint sensor, including the initiating process. RemoteIPType lets you drop private and loopback traffic quickly, and RemoteUrl holds the FQDN when the sensor saw one. If the question is about C2 beaconing, rare destination ports or which process reached an IP, this is the table; DNS and proxy logs from other sources land in Sentinel tables instead.
HOOK: Where did the device talk to? DeviceNetworkEvents.

[326] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which table — a file was created, modified, renamed or downloaded on a device
BACK: #DeviceFileEvents | ActionType FileCreated / FileModified / FileRenamed / FileDeleted | FileOriginUrl and FileOriginReferrerUrl show where a download came from
KQL:
    DeviceFileEvents
    | where ActionType == 'FileCreated' and FolderPath has 'Downloads'
    | where isnotempty(FileOriginUrl)
    | project Timestamp, DeviceName, FileName, FileOriginUrl, SHA256
WHY: DeviceFileEvents records file system activity seen by Defender for Endpoint. Its origin columns (FileOriginUrl, FileOriginReferrerUrl, FileOriginIP) are the quickest way to answer 'which site did this payload come from', and PreviousFileName/PreviousFolderPath expose renames and moves. Share-related columns (ShareName, RequestProtocol, RequestSourceIP) help with lateral tool transfer over SMB. Hash columns can be empty for locked or compressed files.
HOOK: Dropped file or download origin = DeviceFileEvents.

[327] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which table — a Run key or other registry value was written for persistence
BACK: #DeviceRegistryEvents | ActionType RegistryValueSet / RegistryKeyCreated / RegistryKeyDeleted | RegistryKey, RegistryValueName, RegistryValueData, Previous* columns
KQL:
    DeviceRegistryEvents
    | where ActionType == 'RegistryValueSet'
    | where RegistryKey has @'\CurrentVersion\Run'
    | project Timestamp, DeviceName, RegistryValueName, RegistryValueData, InitiatingProcessFileName
WHY: DeviceRegistryEvents is the endpoint table for registry key and value changes. PreviousRegistryValueData and PreviousRegistryKey let you compare before and after a modification, which is useful for detecting tampering with security settings. Exam stems that mention autostart entries, Run keys, Image File Execution Options or disabling Defender through the registry are pointing at this table rather than DeviceEvents.

[328] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which table — interactive or RDP sign-ins on an endpoint, including failures
BACK: #DeviceLogonEvents | ActionType LogonSuccess / LogonFailed; LogonType Interactive, RemoteInteractive, Network… | IsLocalAdmin, RemoteIP, RemoteDeviceName, FailureReason
KQL:
    DeviceLogonEvents
    | where ActionType == 'LogonFailed'
    | summarize Failures = count(), dcount(AccountName) by RemoteIP, DeviceName
    | where Failures > 20
WHY: DeviceLogonEvents comes from the Defender for Endpoint sensor and records logon sessions on the device itself. LogonType values such as RemoteInteractive (RDP), Network and Interactive, together with RemoteIP and IsLocalAdmin, make it the table for brute force against a host or an attacker landing on a box with admin rights. Contrast with IdentityLogonEvents, which is authentication seen by domain controllers and cloud services rather than the endpoint.
HOOK: Logon ON the device = DeviceLogonEvents; logon seen BY the DC = IdentityLogonEvents.

[329] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which table — ASR blocks, antivirus detections, PowerShell commands, USB mounts
BACK: #DeviceEvents | Grab-bag table keyed by ActionType | AntivirusDetection, AsrLsassCredentialTheftBlocked, PowerShellCommand, UsbDriveMounted…
KQL:
    DeviceEvents
    | where ActionType startswith 'Asr' and ActionType endswith 'Blocked'
    | summarize count() by ActionType, DeviceName
WHY: DeviceEvents holds the event types that do not fit the dedicated process, file, network, registry or logon tables: security-control outcomes such as ASR rule blocks and audits, antivirus detections, network protection and SmartScreen events, PowerShell command logging, scheduled task creation and removable media. AdditionalFields carries event-specific JSON. When a stem names a Defender feature firing, filter DeviceEvents by ActionType; the portal schema reference lists the values.
HOOK: If the question names a Defender feature, the answer is usually DeviceEvents + ActionType.

[330] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which table — a DLL was loaded into a process
BACK: #DeviceImageLoadEvents | DLL load events with FileName, FolderPath, SHA1 of the module | InitiatingProcess* identifies the loading process
KQL:
    DeviceImageLoadEvents
    | where FileName =~ 'wmiutils.dll' or FolderPath has 'Temp'
    | project Timestamp, DeviceName, FileName, FolderPath, InitiatingProcessFileName
WHY: DeviceImageLoadEvents is the dedicated table for module (DLL) loads on endpoints. It is the right pick for DLL side-loading and search-order hijacking hunts, where the question is which process loaded an unexpected library from an unusual path. Process creation does not record loaded modules, so DeviceProcessEvents cannot answer it; the loaded DLL is in FileName and the host process is in the InitiatingProcess* columns.

[331] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which table — current OS, onboarding state, device group and logged-on users of a device
BACK: #DeviceInfo (periodic snapshots) | OSPlatform, OnboardingStatus, MachineGroup, LoggedOnUsers, ExposureLevel, PublicIP | Use summarize arg_max(Timestamp, *) by DeviceId for the latest row
KQL:
    DeviceInfo
    | where isnotempty(OSPlatform)
    | summarize arg_max(Timestamp, *) by DeviceId
    | where OnboardingStatus != 'Onboarded' or SensorHealthState != 'Active'
WHY: DeviceInfo is an inventory-style table: each row is a periodic snapshot of a device, not an event, so queries usually collapse it with arg_max to get the newest record per DeviceId. It carries machine group (RBAC scope), manual and dynamic tags, join type, exposure level and sensor health. Adapter-level details (MAC, IP addresses per interface, network adapter type) are in the companion DeviceNetworkInfo table rather than here.
HOOK: DeviceInfo is a snapshot table: arg_max first, filter second.

[332] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which table — vulnerable software per device with CVE and recommended update
BACK: #DeviceTvmSoftwareVulnerabilities | CveId, VulnerabilitySeverityLevel, SoftwareName/Version, RecommendedSecurityUpdate | No Timestamp column: it is a snapshot; join the KB table for CVSS and exploit availability
KQL:
    DeviceTvmSoftwareVulnerabilities
    | where VulnerabilitySeverityLevel == 'Critical'
    | join kind=inner (DeviceTvmSoftwareVulnerabilitiesKB | where IsExploitAvailable) on CveId
    | summarize dcount(DeviceId) by CveId, SoftwareName
WHY: The DeviceTvm* family comes from Defender Vulnerability Management. DeviceTvmSoftwareVulnerabilities lists each device and CVE pair with the vendor's fix, while DeviceTvmSoftwareVulnerabilitiesKB is the knowledge base with CvssScore, PublishedDate and IsExploitAvailable. Because these tables are current-state snapshots without Timestamp, you cannot ask 'when' from them; use DeviceTvmSoftwareInventory for installed software and DeviceTvmSecureConfigurationAssessment for misconfigurations.

[333] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which table — inbound email verdicts, delivery action and sender/recipient
BACK: #EmailEvents | NetworkMessageId, SenderFromAddress, RecipientEmailAddress, Subject, ThreatTypes | EmailDirection Inbound/Outbound/Intra-org; DeliveryAction Delivered/Junked/Blocked/Replaced
KQL:
    EmailEvents
    | where EmailDirection == 'Inbound' and ThreatTypes has 'Phish'
    | where DeliveryAction == 'Delivered'
    | project Timestamp, NetworkMessageId, SenderFromAddress, RecipientEmailAddress, Subject, DeliveryLocation
WHY: EmailEvents is the Defender for Office 365 table with one row per message and recipient at delivery time. ThreatTypes and DetectionMethods hold the verdict, DeliveryAction and DeliveryLocation say what happened, and LatestDeliveryAction/LatestDeliveryLocation reflect later admin or ZAP changes. NetworkMessageId is the key that joins to the attachment, URL, post-delivery and click tables, so almost every mail hunt starts here.
HOOK: Mail hunts start at EmailEvents and pivot on NetworkMessageId.

[334] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which tables — attachment hashes and URLs inside a message
BACK: #EmailAttachmentInfo and EmailUrlInfo | AttachmentInfo: FileName, FileType, SHA256; UrlInfo: Url, UrlDomain | Both join to EmailEvents on NetworkMessageId
KQL:
    EmailEvents
    | join kind=inner (EmailAttachmentInfo | where FileType in ('iso','lnk','js')) on NetworkMessageId
    | project Timestamp, SenderFromAddress, RecipientEmailAddress, FileName, SHA256
WHY: EmailEvents does not list each attachment or URL; those live in EmailAttachmentInfo (one row per attachment with its SHA256 and file type) and EmailUrlInfo (one row per URL with its domain). To answer 'which users received a file with hash X' or 'who got a link to domain Y', join either table to EmailEvents on NetworkMessageId. Clicks on those links are a third table, UrlClickEvents.

[335] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which table — messages removed after delivery by ZAP or an admin
BACK: #EmailPostDeliveryEvents | ActionType Phish ZAP / Malware ZAP / Manual remediation | ActionTrigger, Action, ActionResult, DeliveryLocation
KQL:
    EmailPostDeliveryEvents
    | where ActionType in ('Phish ZAP','Malware ZAP')
    | join kind=inner EmailEvents on NetworkMessageId
    | project Timestamp, RecipientEmailAddress, Subject, Action, ActionResult
WHY: EmailPostDeliveryEvents records what happened to a message after it reached a mailbox: zero-hour auto purge moving a late-identified phish or malware message, or an administrator's manual remediation from Threat Explorer or an approved automated investigation. If the stem says 'was delivered and later removed' or 'ZAP', this is the table; EmailEvents only tells you the verdict at delivery time.

[336] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which table — did a user actually click a Safe Links URL, and was it blocked
BACK: #UrlClickEvents | ActionType ClickAllowed / ClickBlocked / ClickBlockedByTenantPolicy / UrlScanInProgress | IsClickedThrough; Workload Email / Office / Teams
KQL:
    UrlClickEvents
    | where ThreatTypes has 'Phish'
    | where ActionType == 'ClickAllowed' or IsClickedThrough
    | project Timestamp, AccountUpn, Url, ActionType, Workload, NetworkMessageId
WHY: UrlClickEvents captures Safe Links click-time decisions across email, Office apps and Teams. IsClickedThrough is the important flag: the user saw the warning page and proceeded anyway, which usually means the account needs attention. EmailUrlInfo only proves a link was present in a message; UrlClickEvents proves someone clicked it, and NetworkMessageId links the click back to the original mail.
HOOK: Link present = EmailUrlInfo; link clicked = UrlClickEvents.

[337] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which table — Kerberos/NTLM authentications seen by domain controllers or cloud apps
BACK: #IdentityLogonEvents | Fed by Defender for Identity (AD) and Defender for Cloud Apps (online services) | ActionType LogonSuccess/LogonFailed; Protocol Kerberos, NTLM, LDAP; LogonType
KQL:
    IdentityLogonEvents
    | where Protocol == 'NTLM' and ActionType == 'LogonFailed'
    | summarize count(), make_set(AccountName, 20) by IPAddress, bin(Timestamp, 1h)
WHY: IdentityLogonEvents is the identity-side authentication table. Defender for Identity sensors on domain controllers contribute on-premises logons (including protocol and failure reason), and Defender for Cloud Apps contributes sign-ins to Microsoft online services. Pick it for password spray against AD, NTLM relay style activity or legacy protocol use; pick DeviceLogonEvents when the question is about sessions on a specific endpoint, and SigninLogs for raw Entra sign-in detail in Sentinel.

[338] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which table — LDAP or SAMR enumeration of users, groups and admins
BACK: #IdentityQueryEvents | ActionType LDAP query / SAMR query / DNS query | QueryType, QueryTarget, Query; TargetAccountUpn, DestinationDeviceName
KQL:
    IdentityQueryEvents
    | where ActionType == 'SAMR query' and QueryTarget has 'Admins'
    | summarize count() by AccountUpn, DeviceName, QueryTarget
WHY: IdentityQueryEvents, populated by Defender for Identity, records reconnaissance-style directory queries: LDAP searches, SAM-R enumeration of local or domain groups, and DNS queries against the DC. Discovery techniques such as account and group enumeration (BloodHound style collection) show up here. It is distinct from IdentityDirectoryEvents, which records changes to the directory rather than reads of it.
HOOK: Reading AD = IdentityQueryEvents; changing AD = IdentityDirectoryEvents.

[339] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which table — password changes, group membership changes, replication requests in AD
BACK: #IdentityDirectoryEvents | ActionType examples: Account Password changed, Group Membership changed, Directory Services replication | TargetAccountUpn, DestinationDeviceName, AdditionalFields
KQL:
    IdentityDirectoryEvents
    | where ActionType == 'Group Membership changed'
    | extend Grp = tostring(AdditionalFields['TO.GROUP'])
    | where Grp has 'Domain Admins'
    | project Timestamp, AccountName, TargetAccountUpn, Grp
WHY: IdentityDirectoryEvents is the Defender for Identity table for on-premises Active Directory changes and domain controller events: credential and account changes, group membership edits, SMB sessions and directory replication (the signal behind DCSync hunts). The event-specific detail is packed into the AdditionalFields dynamic column, so most useful queries extend a value out of it before filtering. Cloud directory changes are in AuditLogs or CloudAppEvents instead.

[340] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which table — activity inside SaaS and M365 apps (inbox rules, sharing, admin ops)
BACK: #CloudAppEvents | Defender for Cloud Apps connected apps: Exchange, SharePoint, Teams, Dropbox, Salesforce, GitHub… | Application, ActionType, AccountObjectId, IsAdminOperation, RawEventData
KQL:
    CloudAppEvents
    | where Application == 'Microsoft Exchange Online' and ActionType == 'New-InboxRule'
    | extend Params = tostring(RawEventData.Parameters)
    | project Timestamp, AccountDisplayName, IPAddress, CountryCode, Params
WHY: CloudAppEvents carries enriched activity logs for every app connected to Defender for Cloud Apps, including Microsoft 365 workloads once the Office 365 connector is enabled. The original record is kept in RawEventData, so inbox-rule parameters, file names and OAuth consent details are extracted from JSON. It is the XDR counterpart of Sentinel's OfficeActivity table and the place to hunt BEC indicators such as forwarding rules created from a new country.

[341] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which tables — alert metadata and the entities each alert involved
BACK: #AlertInfo + AlertEvidence, joined on AlertId | AlertInfo: Title, Severity, Category, ServiceSource, DetectionSource, AttackTechniques | AlertEvidence: EntityType, EvidenceRole Impacted/Related, SHA1, RemoteIP, AccountUpn…
KQL:
    AlertInfo
    | where Severity == 'High' and ServiceSource == 'Microsoft Defender for Identity'
    | join kind=inner AlertEvidence on AlertId
    | where EntityType == 'User'
    | project Timestamp, Title, AccountUpn, EvidenceRole
WHY: Alerts are split across two tables: AlertInfo has one row per alert with its title, severity, category, MITRE techniques and which Defender product raised it, while AlertEvidence has one row per entity (user, device, file, IP, URL, mailbox) attached to the alert. Any question that combines 'alerts about X' with 'which users or files were involved' needs a join on AlertId. In Sentinel the equivalent is SecurityAlert with entities packed in a JSON column.

[342] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which table — Entra ID user sign-ins vs service principal sign-ins in advanced hunting
BACK: #AADSignInEventsBeta (users, interactive + non-interactive) vs AADSpnSignInEventsBeta (service principals, managed identities) | Newer names EntraIdSignInEvents / EntraIdSpnSignInEvents | Require a Microsoft Entra ID P2 license
KQL:
    AADSignInEventsBeta
    | where ErrorCode == 0 and RiskLevelDuringSignIn >= 50
    | summarize count() by AccountUpn, Country, Application
WHY: Advanced hunting exposes Entra sign-ins in two tables: the user table covers interactive and non-interactive sign-ins with error codes, conditional access results and risk level, and the SPN table covers service principal and managed identity sign-ins. Microsoft now lists EntraIdSignInEvents and EntraIdSpnSignInEvents alongside the older Beta names. In a Sentinel workspace the comparable data is SigninLogs and AADServicePrincipalSignInLogs.

[343] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which tables — query the exposure graph (assets and their relationships) in KQL
BACK: #ExposureGraphNodes and ExposureGraphEdges | Nodes: NodeId, NodeLabel, NodeName, Categories, NodeProperties, EntityIds | Edges: EdgeLabel with SourceNodeId / TargetNodeId
KQL:
    ExposureGraphEdges
    | where EdgeLabel == 'has permissions to'
    | join kind=inner (ExposureGraphNodes | where NodeLabel == 'user') on $left.SourceNodeId == $right.NodeId
    | project NodeName, TargetNodeLabel, TargetNodeId
WHY: Microsoft Security Exposure Management stores its enterprise exposure graph in two advanced hunting tables. ExposureGraphNodes lists every asset with a JSON NodeProperties bag that includes exposure insights such as internet exposure or critical-asset status, and ExposureGraphEdges lists directed relationships between node IDs. Hunting a path to a critical asset in KQL means chaining edge joins; the hunting graph UI does the same visually.

[344] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which Sentinel table — Windows Security event IDs such as 4624, 4688, 4720
BACK: #SecurityEvent | Filled by Windows Security Events via AMA (and WEF forwarding) | EventID, Account, Computer, LogonType, CommandLine, SubjectUserName
KQL:
    SecurityEvent
    | where EventID == 4688 and CommandLine has 'mimikatz'
    | project TimeGenerated, Computer, SubjectUserName, CommandLine
WHY: SecurityEvent is the Log Analytics table that receives Windows Security log entries collected by the Azure Monitor Agent through a data collection rule, or forwarded from a WEF collector. Questions phrased with raw event IDs (4624 logon, 4625 failure, 4688 process creation, 4720 account created, 4728 group membership) are SecurityEvent questions. Defender for Endpoint telemetry about the same activity lives in the Device* tables, with no event IDs.
HOOK: Event ID in the stem = SecurityEvent.

[345] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Sentinel tables for alerts vs incidents — what each row represents
BACK: #SecurityAlert = one row per alert (and update); SecurityIncident = one row per incident state change | SecurityAlert: AlertName, ProviderName, Entities (JSON), Tactics, SystemAlertId | SecurityIncident: IncidentNumber, Status, Severity, Owner, AlertIds, ClassificationReason
KQL:
    SecurityIncident
    | summarize arg_max(TimeGenerated, *) by IncidentNumber
    | where Status == 'Active'
    | mv-expand AlertId = AlertIds
    | join kind=inner (SecurityAlert | project SystemAlertId, AlertName, ProviderName) on $left.AlertId == $right.SystemAlertId
WHY: In a Sentinel workspace alerts from every connected product land in SecurityAlert, and the incidents built from them are logged in SecurityIncident. Both tables are append-only histories, so each status or owner change writes a fresh SecurityIncident row and you collapse with arg_max by IncidentNumber before reporting. AlertIds is a JSON array of SystemAlertId values, which is the join key back to the alerts. Mean-time-to-close workbooks are built on these two tables.

[346] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which Sentinel tables — Entra ID sign-ins vs directory audit changes
BACK: #SigninLogs vs AuditLogs | SigninLogs: ResultType, ConditionalAccessStatus, RiskLevelDuringSignIn, Location, AppDisplayName | AuditLogs: OperationName, Category, InitiatedBy, TargetResources
KQL:
    SigninLogs
    | where ResultType == 0 and RiskLevelDuringSignIn == 'high'
    | summarize count() by UserPrincipalName, IPAddress, AppDisplayName
WHY: The Microsoft Entra ID connector streams two core tables. SigninLogs is every authentication attempt with result code, MFA and conditional access outcome, device and risk detail, which makes it the home of password spray, impossible travel and MFA fatigue hunts. AuditLogs is what changed in the directory: role assignments, app consents, user and group edits, with the actor in InitiatedBy and the object in TargetResources. Non-interactive and service principal sign-ins have their own AAD* tables.

[347] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which Sentinel table — CEF firewall logs vs plain syslog from a Linux forwarder
BACK: #CommonSecurityLog (CEF via AMA) vs Syslog (Syslog via AMA) | CommonSecurityLog: DeviceVendor, DeviceProduct, DeviceAction, SourceIP, DestinationIP, DestinationPort | Syslog: Facility, SeverityLevel, ProcessName, SyslogMessage
KQL:
    CommonSecurityLog
    | where DeviceVendor == 'Palo Alto Networks' and DeviceAction == 'deny'
    | summarize Denied = count() by SourceIP, DestinationPort
    | top 20 by Denied
WHY: Both connectors ride the Azure Monitor Agent on a Linux log forwarder, but they land in different tables. CEF-formatted messages are parsed into the typed columns of CommonSecurityLog, so firewall, proxy and IDS vendors that emit CEF are queried there. Everything else that arrives as raw syslog stays in the Syslog table with the text in SyslogMessage and needs parse or extract to pull fields out. Using the same facility for both connectors duplicates data.
HOOK: CEF = CommonSecurityLog; everything else over syslog = Syslog.

[348] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which Sentinel tables — Microsoft 365 workload activity vs Azure control-plane operations
BACK: #OfficeActivity vs AzureActivity | OfficeActivity: OfficeWorkload (Exchange, SharePoint, OneDrive, Teams), Operation, UserId, ClientIP | AzureActivity: OperationNameValue, Caller, ResourceGroup, ActivityStatusValue, CallerIpAddress
KQL:
    OfficeActivity
    | where OfficeWorkload == 'Exchange' and Operation in ('New-InboxRule','Set-InboxRule','Set-Mailbox')
    | project TimeGenerated, UserId, Operation, ClientIP, Parameters
WHY: OfficeActivity is the Sentinel copy of the Microsoft 365 unified audit log for Exchange, SharePoint, OneDrive and Teams, so mailbox rule creation, mass downloads and sharing changes are hunted there. AzureActivity is the Azure subscription activity log: who created, deleted or modified Azure resources, role assignments and key vault policies, with the identity in Caller. A question about SharePoint files goes to the first; a question about a VM or NSG change goes to the second.

[349] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which Sentinel tables — threat indicators and STIX objects for TI matching
BACK: #ThreatIntelIndicators (indicators) and ThreatIntelObjects (actors, attack patterns, relationships) | Replaced the legacy ThreatIntelligenceIndicator table (ingestion stopped July 31, 2025) | Match on ObservableValue / ObservableKey, check IsActive and ValidUntil
KQL:
    let ioc = ThreatIntelIndicators
    | where IsActive and ObservableKey == 'ipv4-addr:value'
    | project Ioc = tostring(ObservableValue);
    CommonSecurityLog
    | where DestinationIP in (ioc)
WHY: Sentinel now stores imported threat intelligence in two tables. ThreatIntelIndicators holds the observables (IPs, domains, URLs, hashes, certificates, user agents) with validity and confidence, and ThreatIntelObjects holds the surrounding STIX objects such as threat actors and relationships. The older ThreatIntelligenceIndicator table no longer receives data, so hunting queries, analytics rules and workbooks written against it must be migrated.
HOOK: New TI tables are plural: ThreatIntelIndicators and ThreatIntelObjects.

[350] cat=kql obj=3.1.1 (Identify the appropriate table to use in a KQL query)
FRONT: Which Sentinel tables — UEBA anomaly scores, peer groups and enriched account data
BACK: #BehaviorAnalytics (InvestigationPriority 0–10, ActivityInsights, UsersInsights) | UserPeerAnalytics ranks a user's peers; IdentityInfo is the enriched account directory | IdentityInfo fully re-syncs every 14 days, incremental changes within minutes
KQL:
    BehaviorAnalytics
    | where InvestigationPriority >= 7
    | where ActivityInsights.FirstTimeUserConnectedFromCountry == true
    | join kind=inner (IdentityInfo | summarize arg_max(TimeGenerated, *) by AccountUPN) on $left.UserPrincipalName == $right.AccountUPN
    | project TimeGenerated, UserPrincipalName, SourceIPLocation, AssignedRoles, BlastRadius
WHY: Enabling UEBA adds tables Sentinel generates itself. BehaviorAnalytics scores every analyzed activity with an InvestigationPriority and explains it in dynamic insight columns (first time from this country, uncommon among peers, and so on). UserPeerAnalytics lists each user's calculated peers for comparison, and IdentityInfo is the enrichment directory with roles, group membership (up to 500 groups), manager and blast radius, drawn from Entra ID and from Defender for Identity for on-premises AD.

[351] cat=kql obj=3.1.2 (Identify threats by using Kusto Query Language (KQL))
FRONT: where vs project vs project-away vs project-rename vs extend
BACK: #where filters rows; project picks/renames columns; extend adds computed columns | project-away drops named columns, keeping the rest | project-rename changes names without dropping anything
KQL:
    DeviceProcessEvents
    | where Timestamp > ago(7d)
    | extend Cmd = tolower(ProcessCommandLine)
    | project-rename Host = DeviceName
    | project-away ReportId, MD5
WHY: These are the row and column shaping operators every hunting query uses. where keeps rows that satisfy a predicate; project returns only the listed columns (and can rename or compute inline); project-away removes a few columns while keeping everything else; project-rename renames in place; extend appends new calculated columns without discarding existing ones. Exam distractors swap project and extend, so remember that project narrows and extend widens.
HOOK: project narrows, extend widens, where thins.

[352] cat=kql obj=3.1.2 (Identify threats by using Kusto Query Language (KQL))
FRONT: summarize — grouping with count(), dcount(), countif(), make_set(), arg_max()
BACK: #summarize aggregates rows into one row per group (the by clause) | count rows, dcount distinct values, countif conditional, make_set/make_list collect values | arg_max(Timestamp, *) returns the whole latest row per group
KQL:
    DeviceLogonEvents
    | where ActionType == 'LogonFailed'
    | summarize Attempts = count(), Users = dcount(AccountName), Names = make_set(AccountName, 10),
        Last = arg_max(Timestamp, RemoteIP) by DeviceName
WHY: summarize is the aggregation operator: it groups rows by the columns after by and computes functions over each group. count() and countif() produce totals, dcount() counts distinct values, sum/avg/min/max/percentile handle numeric columns, make_set and make_list collect values into a dynamic array, and arg_max/arg_min return the row with the highest or lowest value of an expression. Threshold-style detections ('more than 10 failures from one IP') are summarize followed by where.
HOOK: summarize = GROUP BY; arg_max = 'give me the newest row'.

[353] cat=kql obj=3.1.2 (Identify threats by using Kusto Query Language (KQL))
FRONT: bin() with summarize — bucketing events into time windows
BACK: #bin(Timestamp, 1h) rounds each timestamp down to its bucket | Used in the by clause to count per interval | Pairs with render timechart for trend visualisation
KQL:
    DeviceNetworkEvents
    | where RemoteIPType == 'Public'
    | summarize Connections = count() by bin(Timestamp, 15m), DeviceName
    | render timechart
WHY: bin() (alias floor) rounds a value down to the nearest multiple of the bin size, so summarize by bin(Timestamp, 1h) yields one row per device per hour. It is the standard way to build a time series for beaconing analysis, spikes in failed logons or hourly email volume. Without bin, grouping by a raw timestamp produces one group per event. Remember bin on the datetime column, not on count.

[354] cat=kql obj=3.1.2 (Identify threats by using Kusto Query Language (KQL))
FRONT: join kinds — innerunique (default), inner, leftouter, leftanti, leftsemi, fullouter
BACK: #Default kind is innerunique: dedupes left-side keys before matching | inner keeps all matches; leftouter keeps every left row (nulls on no match) | leftanti = left rows with NO match; leftsemi = left rows WITH a match, right columns dropped
KQL:
    // devices seen by Defender but with no heartbeat in Sentinel
    DeviceInfo | summarize arg_max(Timestamp, *) by DeviceName
    | join kind=leftanti (Heartbeat | distinct Computer) on $left.DeviceName == $right.Computer
WHY: join combines two tables on a key. The default flavor is innerunique, which keeps one left row per key, so an explicit kind=inner is needed when you want every matching combination. leftouter preserves unmatched left rows, rightouter and fullouter do the same for the other side or both, leftanti returns left rows without a match (perfect for 'which devices are missing'), and leftsemi returns matched left rows without adding right columns. Use $left and $right when the key column names differ, and put the smaller table on the left.
HOOK: Forget kind= and you get innerunique; 'not in the other table' = leftanti.

[355] cat=kql obj=3.1.2 (Identify threats by using Kusto Query Language (KQL))
FRONT: union vs join — stacking tables vs matching rows
BACK: #union appends rows from several tables (same or different schemas) | join matches rows across tables on a key | union withsource=TableName tags where each row came from
KQL:
    union withsource = Src DeviceProcessEvents, DeviceNetworkEvents, DeviceFileEvents
    | where SHA1 == 'ad67d136c1db4f9f88efd94f3b6b0b5a4e2c1a0f' or InitiatingProcessSHA1 == 'ad67d136c1db4f9f88efd94f3b6b0b5a4e2c1a0f'
    | summarize count() by Src, DeviceName
WHY: union vertically concatenates rows from two or more tables and is the tool for 'search every Device* table for this hash' questions; columns that exist in only some inputs are null in the others. join horizontally matches rows by key and is the tool for enriching one table with another. Wildcards work in union (union Device*), and withsource adds a column naming the origin table. A join across tables with no shared key is a classic wrong-answer option.
HOOK: union = stack them; join = line them up.

[356] cat=kql obj=3.1.2 (Identify threats by using Kusto Query Language (KQL))
FRONT: let statements — reusable values, lists and sub-queries
BACK: #let name = value; defines a scalar, a dynamic list or a tabular expression | Ends with a semicolon; referenced later in the same query | materialize() inside let caches a tabular result evaluated once
KQL:
    let lookback = 14d;
    let lolbins = dynamic(['certutil.exe','mshta.exe','regsvr32.exe']);
    let susp = materialize(DeviceProcessEvents | where Timestamp > ago(lookback) and FileName in~ (lolbins));
    susp | summarize count() by FileName
    | join kind=inner (susp | summarize dcount(DeviceName) by FileName) on FileName
WHY: let binds a name to a scalar (time span, string), a dynamic array for use with in or has_any, or a whole tabular expression that later lines reference like a table. It makes hunting queries readable and is how reference lists and thresholds are parameterised. Wrapping a tabular let in materialize() caches it so a sub-query that is used twice, as on both sides of a join, is computed once; the cache is capped at 5 GB per node.

[357] cat=kql obj=3.1.2 (Identify threats by using Kusto Query Language (KQL))
FRONT: parse vs extract — pulling fields out of a string column
BACK: #parse matches a literal pattern and names the pieces | extract(regex, captureGroup, source) returns one regex capture | parse_json()/todynamic() for JSON; then dot or [] access
KQL:
    Syslog
    | where ProcessName == 'sshd' and SyslogMessage has 'Failed password'
    | parse SyslogMessage with * 'for ' User ' from ' SrcIP ' port ' Port:int *
    | summarize count() by User, SrcIP
WHY: Unstructured text in Syslog, CommonSecurityLog Message or AdditionalFields needs extraction before you can summarize. parse walks the string against a template with * wildcards and captures named columns, which is fast and readable for stable formats. extract applies a regular expression and returns a numbered capture group, better for variable formats. JSON columns are handled differently: parse_json or todynamic turns the string into a dynamic value whose properties you address with dot notation and cast with tostring or toint.

[358] cat=kql obj=3.1.2 (Identify threats by using Kusto Query Language (KQL))
FRONT: mv-expand — turning a dynamic array into one row per element
BACK: #mv-expand splits an array (or property bag) column into multiple rows | Used on AlertIds, LoggedOnUsers, make_set output, JSON lists in AdditionalFields | The expanded value is dynamic; cast with tostring() before joining
KQL:
    DeviceInfo
    | summarize arg_max(Timestamp, *) by DeviceId
    | mv-expand User = parse_json(LoggedOnUsers)
    | extend UserName = tostring(User.UserName)
    | summarize Devices = dcount(DeviceId) by UserName
    | where Devices > 5
WHY: Many hunting tables store lists inside a single dynamic column, for example the users signed in to a device, the alert IDs behind an incident, or the recipients of a message. mv-expand duplicates the row once per element so you can filter, count and join on individual values. The opposite direction, collapsing many rows into one array, is summarize make_set or make_list. Casting the expanded element with tostring is required because join keys must be strongly typed.

[359] cat=kql obj=3.1.2 (Identify threats by using Kusto Query Language (KQL))
FRONT: sort/order, top, take/limit, distinct — controlling what comes back
BACK: #sort by Col desc (order by is an alias); top N by Col combines sort + limit | take N / limit N return N arbitrary rows without sorting | distinct returns unique combinations of the listed columns
KQL:
    EmailEvents
    | where ThreatTypes has 'Malware'
    | summarize Hits = count() by SenderFromAddress
    | top 10 by Hits desc
WHY: These operators shape the end of a query. sort by (or order by) arranges rows, defaulting to descending; top N by combines the sort and the cap in one step and is the right answer for 'the ten noisiest senders'. take and limit are interchangeable and return the first N rows the engine happens to produce, so they are for previewing data, not ranking. distinct removes duplicate rows across the named columns and is often faster than summarize when no aggregate is needed.

[360] cat=kql obj=3.1.2 (Identify threats by using Kusto Query Language (KQL))
FRONT: has vs contains vs startswith vs matches regex — which string operator to choose
BACK: #has matches a whole indexed term (3+ chars) — fastest; contains is any substring | startswith/endswith anchor the match; matches regex for patterns | All are case-insensitive unless the _cs variant is used; matches regex is case-sensitive
KQL:
    // 'KustoExplorerQueryRun' has 'Explorer'      -> false (not a separate term)
    // 'KustoExplorerQueryRun' contains 'Explorer' -> true
    DeviceProcessEvents
    | where ProcessCommandLine has 'Invoke-Mimikatz'
    | where ProcessCommandLine contains '-nop'
WHY: KQL indexes text as terms (maximal alphanumeric runs of three or more characters). has looks a term up in that index and is far cheaper than contains, which scans for any substring; the trade-off is that has will not find a fragment inside a longer word. startswith and endswith anchor matches, and matches regex accepts a regular expression. Microsoft's guidance is to prefer has over contains and case-sensitive operators (has_cs, ==) when the data allows.
HOOK: has = whole word, indexed; contains = any substring, slow.

[361] cat=kql obj=3.1.2 (Identify threats by using Kusto Query Language (KQL))
FRONT: has_any, has_all, in, in~ — matching against a list of values
BACK: #has_any: any term from the list; has_all: every term; in: exact match to any list element | in and == are case-sensitive; in~ and =~ are case-insensitive | Lists can be a dynamic literal, a let variable or a sub-query
KQL:
    let bad = dynamic(['certutil.exe','bitsadmin.exe','mshta.exe']);
    DeviceProcessEvents
    | where FileName in~ (bad)
    | where ProcessCommandLine has_any ('http://','https://','-urlcache')
WHY: When one column must be checked against many values, has_any (term match on any value), has_all (every value present) and in (exact equality with any list element) replace long chains of or. The tilde versions in~ and !in~ relax case sensitivity, mirroring =~ for equality. in also accepts a tabular sub-query that returns one column, which is how a watch-list or threat-intel list is applied. has_any is the usual pick for command-line keyword hunts.

[362] cat=kql obj=3.1.2 (Identify threats by using Kusto Query Language (KQL))
FRONT: String equality case sensitivity: == vs =~ and the _cs operator family
BACK: #== and != are case-sensitive; =~ and !~ are case-insensitive | has, contains, startswith are case-INsensitive by default; add _cs for sensitive | in is sensitive, in~ is not
KQL:
    DeviceProcessEvents
    | where FileName == 'PowerShell.exe'   // misses powershell.exe
    | where FileName =~ 'powershell.exe'  // matches any casing
WHY: Case rules are a favourite trap. For equality the plain operator is case-sensitive and the tilde form is not, so a filter on FileName == 'powershell.exe' silently misses 'PowerShell.exe'. The text operators go the other way: has, contains, startswith and endswith ignore case by default and have _cs variants when you want sensitivity. Since case-sensitive comparisons are faster, use them when you control the casing (for example after tolower()).
HOOK: == strict, =~ relaxed; has relaxed, has_cs strict.

[363] cat=kql obj=3.1.2 (Identify threats by using Kusto Query Language (KQL))
FRONT: Time functions: ago(), between, startofday(), datetime_diff(), format_datetime()
BACK: #ago(7d) = now minus a timespan; Timestamp between (start .. end) | startofday/startofweek truncate; datetime_diff('minute', later, earlier) returns a number | format_datetime(t, 'yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm') renders text
KQL:
    EmailEvents
    | where Timestamp between (startofday(ago(1d)) .. startofday(now()))
    | extend Hour = format_datetime(Timestamp, 'HH')
    | summarize count() by Hour
WHY: Hunting queries scope time explicitly because the portal time picker is only a default. ago() gives a relative start, between (a .. b) bounds a range, and startofday or startofweek align windows to calendar boundaries. datetime_diff computes the gap between two timestamps in a chosen unit, which is how dwell time or 'minutes between first logon and first exfil' is derived, and format_datetime turns a datetime into a string for grouping or display. Timespans use literals such as 30m, 2h, 7d.

[364] cat=kql obj=3.1.2 (Identify threats by using Kusto Query Language (KQL))
FRONT: Type conversion and conditionals: tostring(), toint(), iff(), case()
BACK: #tostring/toint/tolong/todatetime cast values, usually after JSON extraction | iff(cond, a, b) is a two-way choice; case(c1, r1, c2, r2, default) is multi-way | Dynamic values must be cast before join or in comparisons
KQL:
    DeviceNetworkEvents
    | extend Port = toint(RemotePort)
    | extend Svc = case(Port == 3389, 'RDP', Port == 445, 'SMB', Port in (22, 23), 'Shell', 'Other')
    | extend External = iff(RemoteIPType == 'Public', true, false)
    | summarize count() by Svc, External
WHY: Columns pulled from JSON (AdditionalFields, RawEventData, Entities) come back as dynamic and must be converted with tostring, toint, tolong, todatetime or tobool before they can be compared reliably or used as join keys. iff evaluates a single condition and returns one of two values; case walks a list of condition/result pairs and returns the first match or the trailing default. These are the building blocks for severity labels and classification columns in hunting output.

[365] cat=kql obj=3.1.2 (Identify threats by using Kusto Query Language (KQL))
FRONT: count vs summarize count() — two ways to count
BACK: #| count returns a single number of rows (column named Count) | summarize count() by X returns one row per group with column count_ | summarize count() without by = one total row
KQL:
    DeviceEvents
    | where ActionType == 'AntivirusDetection'
    | count
    // versus
    DeviceEvents
    | where ActionType == 'AntivirusDetection'
    | summarize Detections = count() by DeviceName
WHY: The count operator ends a query with one row containing the total number of rows that reached it. summarize count() is the aggregation function and produces a count per group named in the by clause (or one row with no by), and its default column name is count_ unless you alias it. Custom detection rules and analytics rules that need a threshold per entity use the summarize form, because they must keep the entity column alongside the number.

[366] cat=kql obj=3.1.2 (Identify threats by using Kusto Query Language (KQL))
FRONT: render, search and externaldata — visualise, sweep and import
BACK: #render timechart | barchart | piechart draws a summarized result | search 'term' sweeps all tables/columns (slow; adds $table column) | externaldata(schema) [@'url'] with(format='csv') reads a reference list from blob/GitHub
KQL:
    let bad_ips = externaldata(ip:string)[@'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/contoso/blocklist/main/ips.txt'] with(format='txt');
    DeviceNetworkEvents
    | where RemoteIP in (bad_ips)
    | summarize count() by bin(Timestamp, 1d)
    | render timechart
WHY: Three operators sit at the edges of a hunt. render is a presentation hint placed last that turns a summarize-by-time result into a chart. search scans every column of every table (or those named with in) for a term and is handy for a first look at an unknown indicator, but it is expensive and not something to put in a scheduled rule. externaldata pulls a small file (under 100 MB) from a URL or storage account into a table shape, so public block-lists can be joined without ingestion; it is not allowed in NRT rules or data lake KQL jobs.

[367] cat=kql obj=3.1.3 (Create Advanced Hunting queries)
FRONT: Advanced hunting quotas — retention, result rows, timeout
BACK: #Native Defender XDR data: 30 days; Sentinel tables: their analytics-tier retention | Result set 100,000 rows and 64 MB per query; 10-minute timeout | CPU quota per tenant, refreshed every 15 minutes (warning above 10%)
WHY: Advanced hunting over native XDR tables only reaches back 30 days; anything older requires onboarding a Sentinel workspace and extending analytics-tier retention, or streaming to external storage. Each query returns at most 100,000 rows or 64 MB and is cut off at ten minutes, and the tenant has a CPU allocation that the portal warns about above 10 percent and blocks at 100 percent until the next 15-minute cycle. Queries are written in UTC and results are shown in the portal time zone.
HOOK: 30 days back, 100k rows out, 10 minutes max.

[368] cat=kql obj=3.1.3 (Create Advanced Hunting queries)
FRONT: Columns a query must return to be used as a custom detection rule
BACK: #Timestamp (or TimeGenerated) and ReportId | For Defender for Endpoint tables also DeviceId (device-group scoping, process tree) | Plus at least one entity column: DeviceName, AccountObjectId, RecipientEmailAddress…
KQL:
    DeviceEvents
    | where ingestion_time() > ago(1d) and ActionType == 'AntivirusDetection'
    | summarize (Timestamp, ReportId) = arg_max(Timestamp, ReportId), Hits = count() by DeviceId, DeviceName
    | where Hits > 5
WHY: A hunting query becomes a detection only if its output can be mapped back to events and assets. Timestamp sets the alert time, ReportId identifies the triggering record so the alert can show the original event, and DeviceId lets Defender apply device-group permissions and build the process tree. Summarize throws these away unless you carry them through with arg_max, which is the pattern the documentation shows. Queries lacking entity columns still run, but the alerts will have no impacted assets to act on.
HOOK: summarize eats Timestamp and ReportId; arg_max them back.

[369] cat=kql obj=3.1.3 (Create Advanced Hunting queries)
FRONT: 'Go hunt' and 'Hunt for related events' — launching a query from an incident
BACK: #Go hunt appears on entities in the incident summary and Evidence tab | Hunt for related events appears on a device timeline event: ±30 minutes across tables | Both open advanced hunting with a prefilled query you can edit
KQL:
    // generated shape for a timeline event
    let selectedTimestamp = datetime(2026-09-30T14:02:11Z);
    union DeviceProcessEvents, DeviceNetworkEvents, DeviceFileEvents
    | where Timestamp between ((selectedTimestamp - 30m) .. (selectedTimestamp + 30m))
WHY: The go hunt action bridges incident investigation and advanced hunting. From a user, device, file, IP, URL, mailbox or email entity it builds a query scoped around the earliest activity of that entity in the incident, and from a device timeline row it builds a union across the relevant schema tables for a thirty-minute window either side of the selected event, labelling rows as earlier, selected or later. Because the query is just text in the editor, you can widen the window or add filters before running.

[370] cat=kql obj=3.1.3 (Create Advanced Hunting queries)
FRONT: My queries vs Shared queries vs Community queries in advanced hunting
BACK: #My queries: saved privately for you | Shared queries: visible to everyone in the tenant | Community queries: Microsoft's public GitHub (Azure-Sentinel repo) surfaced in the portal
WHY: Save query > Save as lets you choose a folder: My queries keeps a query personal, Shared queries publishes it to every analyst in the organisation, and the Community queries folder is read-only content pulled from Microsoft's GitHub hunting repository, organised by category. A Share link button produces a URL that opens the editor with the query loaded. Deleting is permanent, so rename rather than delete when you want to keep history. Saved queries can also be exposed as functions and as custom MCP tools.

[371] cat=kql obj=3.1.3 (Create Advanced Hunting queries)
FRONT: 'Take action' from advanced hunting results — what can be done and which column is needed
BACK: #Devices (DeviceId): isolate, collect investigation package, run AV scan, start AIR, restrict app execution | Files (DeviceId + SHA1/SHA256): quarantine; Users (AccountObjectId / AccountSid): disable, reset auth | Email (NetworkMessageId): move to folder, soft/hard delete, submit to Microsoft; tracked in Action center
KQL:
    EmailEvents
    | where ThreatTypes has 'Phish' and DeliveryAction == 'Delivered'
    | project NetworkMessageId, RecipientEmailAddress, EmailDirection, SenderFromAddress, LatestDeliveryLocation
WHY: Selecting rows in the results grid and choosing Take action lets you respond without leaving the hunting page. The available actions depend on which identifier columns the query projected: a DeviceId unlocks device actions, a hash alongside DeviceId unlocks file quarantine, an account object ID or SID unlocks identity actions, and NetworkMessageId with EmailDirection and SenderFromAddress unlocks mail moves and deletes. Every action is logged with an approval ID in the Action center History tab and needs the matching response permission.
HOOK: No identifier column, no action button.

[372] cat=kql obj=3.1.3 (Create Advanced Hunting queries)
FRONT: Query resources report — finding expensive advanced hunting queries
BACK: #Lists queries run in the last 30 days with CPU usage (Low/Medium/High) | Shows query time, state (completed, failed, throttled), time range and interface (portal, API, custom detection) | Use it when the tenant hits CPU quota warnings
WHY: When advanced hunting starts throttling, the Query resources report shows which queries are responsible. It ranks executions from the past 30 days by resource consumption, tells you whether they came from the portal, the API or a scheduled custom detection, and flags failed or throttled runs. Typical fixes are narrowing the time range, filtering before join, replacing contains with has and reducing the frequency of heavy custom detections. The report is reached from the advanced hunting page.

[373] cat=kql obj=3.1.3 (Create Advanced Hunting queries)
FRONT: Advanced hunting in the Defender portal vs Logs in the Azure portal
BACK: #Defender portal advanced hunting is unified: XDR tables, Sentinel workspace tables and data lake in one editor | Timestamp (XDR) vs TimeGenerated (Sentinel); custom functions from the workspace are usable | Security Copilot can write KQL from natural language there
KQL:
    // XDR table and Sentinel table side by side in the Defender portal
    DeviceLogonEvents | where Timestamp > ago(1d)
    | join kind=inner (SecurityEvent | where EventID == 4624 and TimeGenerated > ago(1d)) on $left.DeviceName == $right.Computer
WHY: Once a workspace is onboarded to the Defender portal, advanced hunting becomes the single hunting surface: it queries native XDR tables, every table in the connected Sentinel workspace and, through the data lake, longer history, with Security Copilot available to draft KQL. The Azure portal Logs blade only sees the workspace. Watch the time column: XDR tables use Timestamp while Log Analytics tables use TimeGenerated, and the Defender portal scope can be the tenant or a selected workspace.

[374] cat=xdrhunt obj=3.1.4 (Interpret threat analytics in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Threat analytics dashboard — the three headline sections
BACK: #Latest threats, High-impact threats, Highest exposure threats | Impact is ranked by active and resolved alerts in your tenant | Exposure is computed from vulnerability severity and vulnerable device count
WHY: Threat analytics is Microsoft's in-product threat intelligence feed, reached from the Defender portal navigation. The dashboard opens with three lists: the most recently published or updated reports, the threats generating the most alerts in your organisation, and the threats you are most exposed to based on unpatched vulnerabilities. The difference between impact (what already fired) and exposure (what could) is a common exam angle.
HOOK: Impact = alerts you already have; exposure = holes you still have.

[375] cat=xdrhunt obj=3.1.4 (Interpret threat analytics in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Sections of a threat analytics report
BACK: #Overview, Analyst report, Related incidents, Impacted assets, Endpoints exposure, Recommended actions | Analyst report = the researcher write-up with attack chain, techniques and hunting guidance | Impacted assets lists devices, users, mailboxes, apps and cloud resources
WHY: Each report follows the same layout. Overview summarises the threat with charts of organisational impact and MITRE techniques; Analyst report is the detailed narrative written by Microsoft researchers, including recommended hunting queries; Related incidents lists your incidents tied to the threat; Impacted assets shows which of your assets had active or resolved alerts; Endpoints exposure shows patch status for the relevant CVEs; Recommended actions lists mitigations. An Indicators tab with IOCs is in preview for verified customers.
HOOK: Hunting queries hide in the Analyst report tab.

[376] cat=xdrhunt obj=3.1.4 (Interpret threat analytics in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Threat tags used to filter threat analytics reports
BACK: #Ransomware, Phishing, Vulnerability, Activity group | Plus a Category filter such as Actor or OSINT report type | Filters are applied from the Filters button on the report list
WHY: Reports carry threat tags so an analyst can narrow the list to what matters for a task: the four tags are ransomware, phishing, vulnerability and activity group (the threat actor profiles). A separate category filter distinguishes actor profiles and open-source intelligence articles from other analyst reports. The same tags drive the threat analytics email notification settings, where you choose which tagged reports trigger an email.
HOOK: Four tags: ransomware, phishing, vulnerability, activity group.

[377] cat=xdrhunt obj=3.1.4 (Interpret threat analytics in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Reading 'Impacted assets' vs 'Endpoints exposure' on a threat report
BACK: #Impacted assets = entities with active or resolved alerts for this threat (post-breach) | Endpoints exposure = devices still missing the relevant security updates (pre-breach) | Together they answer 'are we hit?' and 'could we be hit?'
WHY: Two tabs on a report are easy to confuse. Impacted assets is evidence of detection: devices, users, mailboxes, apps and cloud resources that already have alerts mapped to the threat, with their alert state. Endpoints exposure is posture: the share of devices where the vulnerabilities the threat exploits remain unpatched, drawn from Defender Vulnerability Management. A stem asking which devices should be patched first points at exposure; one asking which incidents to triage points at impacted assets or related incidents.

[378] cat=xdrhunt obj=3.1.4 (Interpret threat analytics in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Threat intelligence in the Defender portal — Intel explorer and intel profiles (MDTI)
BACK: #Threat intelligence > Intel explorer: search campaigns, indicators, threat actors, tools, vulnerabilities, reports | Intel profiles describe actors, tools and CVEs with associated indicators | Entity pages get a Threat Intelligence Insights tab (reputation, articles, infrastructure)
WHY: Microsoft Defender Threat Intelligence content is surfaced under Threat intelligence in the Defender portal. Intel explorer searches and filters across campaigns, indicators, attack patterns, actors, tools and vulnerabilities, and intel profiles are curated pages about a specific actor or tool. IP, domain, URL and file entity pages gain a Threat Intelligence Insights tab with reputation and infrastructure relationships. Unlike threat analytics, this content is not computed against your tenant's alerts and exposure; it is reference intelligence.
HOOK: Threat analytics = Microsoft threat + your data; MDTI = the world's infrastructure.

[379] cat=xdrhunt obj=3.1.4 (Interpret threat analytics in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Threat analytics vs the Threat intelligence overview page
BACK: #Threat analytics reports: tenant-specific impact, exposure and mitigations per threat | Threat intelligence overview: executive summary, latest/high-impact/highest-exposure lists, articles, notifications | Both live under Threat intelligence in the Defender portal
WHY: The Threat intelligence section now opens with an overview page that combines a generated executive summary, the same latest, high-impact and highest-exposure lists seen on the threat analytics dashboard, article browsing and email notification setup. Threat analytics reports remain the per-threat deep dive with your related incidents and exposed endpoints. When a stem asks how to judge whether a newly published campaign affects the organisation, the report's impact and exposure data is the answer, not a generic article.

[380] cat=xdrhunt obj=3.1.4 (Interpret threat analytics in Microsoft Defender XDR)
FRONT: Using a threat analytics report to drive a hunt
BACK: #Copy the hunting queries from the Analyst report into advanced hunting | Check Related incidents and Impacted assets for what already fired | Patch via Endpoints exposure; apply Recommended actions; bookmark the report for updates
WHY: The exam frames threat analytics as a starting point for proactive hunting rather than a read-only feed. The operational loop is: read the analyst report for the attack chain and techniques, run its advanced hunting queries across the 30-day window, review related incidents and impacted assets to see existing detections, then use endpoints exposure and recommended actions to reduce the attack surface. Reports are updated when Microsoft learns more, and email notifications can be enabled for new or updated reports by tag.

[381] cat=xdrhunt obj=3.1.5 (Create hunting graphs, including blast radius)
FRONT: Where the hunting graph is opened in the Defender portal
BACK: #Investigation & response > Hunting > Advanced hunting, then the hunting graph icon or Create new > Hunting graph | Opens a 'New graph' tab beside your KQL tabs | Run a predefined scenario with inputs, then explore nodes and edges
WHY: The hunting graph is not a separate menu item; it is a graph tab inside advanced hunting. From the toolbar you pick the graph icon or Create new and choose Hunting graph, which opens a New graph tab. You then select a predefined scenario, supply its inputs (a device, a user, a storage account), optionally set filters, and select Run scenario to render an interactive graph of nodes (entities) and edges (relationships). Findings can be pivoted back into KQL for further work.
HOOK: Graph lives inside advanced hunting, not in Exposure management.

[382] cat=xdrhunt obj=3.1.5 (Create hunting graphs, including blast radius)
FRONT: Predefined hunting graph scenarios — representative names
BACK: #Attack paths to critical asset; Paths between two entities; Entity relationship map | Paths to domain admins; Kerberoast paths to critical assets; Access to key vaults | Filter the scenario list by MITRE technique buttons
WHY: Rather than writing graph queries, analysts choose from a list of prebuilt scenarios (around twenty) that each answer a hunting question: potential lateral movement routes to a critical asset, every path connecting two named entities, the direct relationships of one entity, routes from non-privileged users to Domain Admins, Kerberoast or AS-REP roast escalation paths, and who can reach sensitive storage, key vaults or Kubernetes clusters. Scenarios are tagged with techniques such as lateral movement and privilege escalation so they can be filtered.

[383] cat=xdrhunt obj=3.1.5 (Create hunting graphs, including blast radius)
FRONT: Hunting graph filters — shortest paths, node properties, edge types
BACK: #Basic filter: show only the shortest paths | Source/Target node filters: is critical, is vulnerable, is exposed to the internet, has sensitive data | Edge type filter: has permissions to, routes traffic to, member of, can authenticate as…; edge direction
WHY: A rendered graph can be large, so filters are applied before running the scenario. The shortest-paths toggle removes redundant longer routes. Node filters restrict the start or end of a path to assets with particular exposure insights, for example only internet-exposed sources or only critical targets. Edge filters limit which relationship types may be traversed and whether they are followed incoming, outgoing or both. These same relationship labels appear on the ExposureGraphEdges table.
HOOK: Same edge labels in the graph UI and in ExposureGraphEdges.

[384] cat=xdrhunt obj=3.1.5 (Create hunting graphs, including blast radius)
FRONT: Prerequisites for hunting graph and blast radius
BACK: #Tenant onboarded to the Microsoft Sentinel data lake | At least read permission in Microsoft Security Exposure Management | The same Entra role that grants advanced hunting
WHY: Graph experiences are built on Microsoft Sentinel graph, which runs over the Sentinel data lake, so a tenant that has not onboarded the data lake does not see the hunting graph tab or the blast radius option. Because the graph incorporates exposure data (critical assets, vulnerabilities, internet exposure), the user also needs read access to Security Exposure Management. Advanced hunting permissions carry over. A stem where the graph option is missing is usually testing the data lake prerequisite.

[385] cat=xdrhunt obj=3.1.5 (Create hunting graphs, including blast radius)
FRONT: Blast radius on the incident graph — what it shows
BACK: #Possible propagation paths from a selected node to predefined critical targets | Up to eight top-rated attack paths drawn, full list in the side panel | Combines post-breach incident evidence with pre-breach exposure in one graph
WHY: Blast radius answers 'if this asset is owned, what can the attacker reach next'. From the incident attack story you select an entity and generate a graph of potential onward paths toward critical assets, scored and limited to the top eight on the canvas with the rest listed in a panel. Path length is capped at five hops for cloud, five for on-premises and three for hybrid. It is a planning view for containment priority rather than evidence of what already happened.
HOOK: Blast radius = what could still happen, drawn next to what did.

[386] cat=xdrhunt obj=3.1.5 (Create hunting graphs, including blast radius)
FRONT: Critical assets and attack paths in Exposure Management
BACK: #Critical assets: predefined and custom classifications under Exposure management > Critical assets | Attack paths (Exposure management > Attack surface > Attack paths) run from an entry point to a critical target | Choke points are nodes where many paths converge; a crown icon marks critical nodes
WHY: Hunting graphs and blast radius depend on the organisation having defined what counts as critical. Exposure Management ships classifications such as domain controllers, file servers, privileged role holders and sensitive databases, and lets you add custom rules with criticality levels. Attack paths are then generated from entry points to those targets, with choke points highlighted where fixing one node breaks many paths. In every graph view, a golden crown and halo mark a critical asset and a red bug marks a vulnerability.
HOOK: Crown = critical asset; bug = vulnerable; choke point = fix me first.

[387] cat=xdrhunt obj=3.1.6 (Analyze relationships between entities by using Sentinel Graph)
FRONT: Microsoft Sentinel graph — what it is
BACK: #Graph analytics layer over the Sentinel data lake: assets, identities, activity and TI as nodes and edges | Powers hunting graph, incident graph with blast radius, Purview data risk graphs, attack path analysis | Auto-provisioned once the data lake is onboarded
WHY: Microsoft Sentinel graph represents security data as a connected graph rather than rows, so questions about relationships (who can reach what, which path leads to a domain admin) become path traversals instead of chains of KQL joins. It is the engine behind the graph experiences in the Defender portal and Purview; analysts do not query it directly except through custom graphs. The only setup is onboarding the Sentinel data lake, after which hunting graph and blast radius appear automatically.
HOOK: Sentinel graph is the engine; hunting graph and blast radius are the UIs.

[388] cat=xdrhunt obj=3.1.6 (Analyze relationships between entities by using Sentinel Graph)
FRONT: Experiences powered by Sentinel graph, by product
BACK: #Defender XDR: incident graph with blast radius; hunting graph in advanced hunting | Purview: data risk graph in Insider Risk Management and Data Security Investigations | Exposure Management / Defender for Cloud: attack path analysis; Custom graphs (preview) via the Graphs page
WHY: The exam bullet is 'analyze relationships between entities by using Sentinel Graph', and the testable detail is which surface delivers which analysis. Post-breach impact and hunting are in Defender XDR; data leak blast radius for insider risk is in Purview; pre-breach attack path analysis is in Security Exposure Management and Defender for Cloud. Custom graphs let a team author their own graph model from lake data and query it with Graph Query Language from the Graphs page in the Defender portal.

[389] cat=xdrhunt obj=3.1.6 (Analyze relationships between entities by using Sentinel Graph)
FRONT: Sentinel graph vs the classic Sentinel investigation graph
BACK: #Sentinel graph: data-lake scale, pre- and post-breach relationships, scenario-driven, Defender portal | Investigation graph: per-incident entity expansion from bookmarks and alerts in the Azure portal Sentinel | Investigation graph needs mapped entities on the alert or bookmark
WHY: Two graph features share a name only loosely. The older investigation graph on a Sentinel incident expands the entities mapped on alerts and bookmarks and shows related alerts and activities for that incident. Sentinel graph is a tenant-wide model over the data lake that also knows about permissions, network reachability, vulnerabilities and critical assets, so it can show hypothetical paths that have not been alerted on. When a stem mentions privilege escalation paths or blast radius, it means Sentinel graph.

[390] cat=xdrhunt obj=3.1.6 (Analyze relationships between entities by using Sentinel Graph)
FRONT: Analysing entity relationships with Sentinel graph — the analyst workflow
BACK: #From an incident: select a node, open blast radius, review top paths to critical assets | From advanced hunting: Entity relationship map or Paths between two entities scenario | Pivot to KQL on ExposureGraphNodes/Edges or the source tables for evidence
WHY: A typical lateral-movement investigation starts on the incident attack story with a compromised device, uses blast radius to see which critical assets are reachable and over which relationships, then switches to the hunting graph to map that device's direct relationships or the paths to a specific target. Each node and edge opens a details pane and can be expanded. Because graph output is hypothesis, the final step is confirming activity in the event tables (DeviceLogonEvents, IdentityLogonEvents) with KQL.

[391] cat=xdrhunt obj=3.1.6 (Analyze relationships between entities by using Sentinel Graph)
FRONT: Which permissions and data feed Sentinel graph relationships
BACK: #Relationships come from Defender for Endpoint, Defender for Identity, Defender for Cloud, Exposure Management and the data lake tables | Viewing needs advanced hunting rights plus Exposure management read | No graph without the data lake onboarded
WHY: Edges such as 'has permissions to', 'can authenticate as', 'routes traffic to' and 'member of' are derived from the products already feeding the Defender portal: endpoint and identity sensors, cloud posture from Defender for Cloud, and the exposure graph. Users see graphs with the same role that grants advanced hunting, plus read access to Security Exposure Management for the criticality overlay. This is why a tenant that runs Sentinel only in the Azure portal, without the data lake and Defender portal onboarding, cannot answer graph-style questions.

[392] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.1 (Create and monitor hunting queries)
FRONT: Sentinel Hunting page — Queries tab essentials
BACK: #Microsoft Sentinel > Threat management > Hunting > Queries | Run all queries or Run selected queries; Results and Results delta columns show match counts | MITRE tactic bar and Techniques column classify queries; sources are Content hub and your own
WHY: The Hunting page lists every hunting query installed from content hub solutions plus custom ones. Run all queries executes the whole set and fills the Results column; Results delta and delta percentage compare the last 24 hours with the previous day so a sudden rise stands out. Icons across the top count queries per MITRE tactic and double as filters, and the Techniques column lists sub-techniques. N/A in results means the query's data source is not connected.
HOOK: Results delta is the 'what changed since yesterday' column.

[393] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.1 (Create and monitor hunting queries)
FRONT: Creating a custom hunting query and promoting it to a detection
BACK: #Queries tab > New query (or clone a template); set description, tactics, techniques, entity mapping | Right-click or query actions > Create analytics rule opens the rule wizard prefilled with name, description and KQL | Hunting queries only run on demand; analytics rules run on a schedule and raise alerts
WHY: A hunting query is saved KQL with metadata (tactics, techniques, entity mappings, description) that runs only when an analyst runs it. Once a hunt has proven the logic finds real activity at a tolerable false-positive rate, the Create analytics rule action hands the query to the scheduled rule wizard with name, description and query prepopulated, and the resulting rule is linked back in the hunt's related analytics rules. The reverse direction, saving a rule as a hunting query, is done by copying the KQL.
HOOK: Hunt first, promote second: query → Create analytics rule.

[394] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.1 (Create and monitor hunting queries)
FRONT: Hunts feature — tracking a hypothesis end to end
BACK: #Hunts tab > New hunt: name, description, owner, Hypothesis state (Unknown / Validated / Invalidated), Status (New / Active / Closed) | Add queries (cloned copies), bookmarks, entities, comments; incidents and rules created from the hunt are linked | Metrics bar: validated hypotheses, incidents created, analytic rules created
WHY: Hunts (preview) turn ad-hoc hunting into tracked work. A hunt records a hypothesis and its state, who owns it and whether it is new, active or closed, and collects the queries used (as independent clones), the bookmarks and entities found, comments, and any incidents or analytics rules produced. Queries can be added from the Queries tab via Hunt actions > Create new hunt or Add to hunt. Creating or managing hunts needs Microsoft Sentinel Contributor or a custom role with hunts permissions.
HOOK: Hypothesis state: Unknown → Validated or Invalidated; status: New → Active → Closed.

[395] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.1 (Create and monitor hunting queries)
FRONT: Hunting bookmarks — what they capture and where they are stored
BACK: #Select result rows > Add bookmark: name, tags, notes, event time column, entity mapping, MITRE tactics/techniques | Stored in the HuntingBookmark table; Bookmarks tab shows up to 1,000 | At least one mapped entity is required to use Investigate (investigation graph)
WHY: A bookmark preserves specific rows from a hunting or Logs query together with the query itself, analyst notes, tags and mapped entities, so a finding can be revisited or shared with the team. Bookmarks are written to the HuntingBookmark table in the workspace, which is why they can be queried in KQL and why there is a short delay before they appear on the Bookmarks tab. Entity mapping is what links a bookmark to accounts, hosts and IPs for the investigation graph and entity pages.
HOOK: Bookmark = rows + notes + entities, stored in HuntingBookmark.

[396] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.1 (Create and monitor hunting queries)
FRONT: Bookmark incident actions — create new or add to existing
BACK: #Bookmarks tab > select > Incident actions > Create new incident or Add to existing incident | Bookmarks then show under the incident's Bookmarks pane | Deleting a bookmark soft-deletes (SoftDelete = true) and leaves incident entities intact
WHY: Bookmarks are how hunting results enter the incident workflow without an analytics rule. From the Bookmarks tab (or from inside a hunt) you select one or more bookmarks and either create a new incident, optionally setting severity and owner, or add them to an incident that already exists; the incident's full details page lists them under Bookmarks. Other bookmark actions include View source query, View bookmark logs and Investigate. A stem that says 'preserve this evidence and escalate it' is describing this path.
HOOK: Found it while hunting? Bookmark it, then Incident actions.

[397] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.1 (Create and monitor hunting queries)
FRONT: Livestream in Sentinel — current status and replacements
BACK: #Livestream sessions are no longer available | For continuous monitoring use KQL jobs (persist results), analytics rules (alerts) or playbooks (notifications) | The Hunting page keeps only the Queries and Bookmarks tabs
WHY: Older material describes a Livestream tab where a hunting query ran interactively and new matches streamed in, with an option to elevate it to an alert rule. Microsoft has retired livestreams; the documentation now points to KQL jobs for scheduled, persisted results in the data lake, to analytics rules (including NRT) for alerting, and to playbooks for Teams or email notifications. If an exam option proposes creating a livestream session, treat it as a dated distractor and pick one of the replacements.
HOOK: Livestream is gone; NRT rule or KQL job instead.

[398] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.1 (Create and monitor hunting queries)
FRONT: Hunting in the Defender portal — where Sentinel hunting features landed
BACK: #Microsoft Sentinel > Threat management > Hunting (queries, hunts, bookmarks) and > Notebooks | Investigation & response > Hunting > Advanced hunting is the unified KQL editor over XDR, workspace and lake tables | Bookmarks can be created from advanced hunting results
WHY: After a workspace is onboarded to the Defender portal, Sentinel's hunting queries, hunts and bookmarks appear under Microsoft Sentinel > Threat management > Hunting, with notebooks and workbooks as sibling items. Ad-hoc KQL moves to the unified advanced hunting page, which can scope to the tenant or to a workspace, reuse workspace functions and saved queries, and bookmark result rows. Microsoft has announced that after March 31, 2027 Sentinel will be available only in the Defender portal.

[399] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.2 (Create and manage KQL jobs in Data lake)
FRONT: KQL job in the Sentinel data lake — what it is for
BACK: #A one-time or scheduled KQL query over data lake tier (and federated) tables whose results are written to a table | Uses: long lookback investigations, retrospective TI matching, aggregation, promoting lake data to the analytics tier | Created from Microsoft Sentinel > Data lake exploration > Jobs, or Create job in the KQL query editor
WHY: The data lake holds up to twelve years of lower-cost data that analytics rules and interactive hunting do not touch. A KQL job runs a query against that tier, on demand or on a schedule, and persists the output as a table, so an analyst can sweep a year of firewall logs for a newly published indicator, build an enrichment table, or promote a filtered slice into the analytics tier where rules and workbooks can use it. Jobs can span multiple workspaces but produce exactly one output table.
HOOK: Lake data is cheap to keep but needs a job to act on.

[400] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.2 (Create and manage KQL jobs in Data lake)
FRONT: KQL job destination tables — naming and tier
BACK: #New table in the analytics tier: name gets the _KQL_CL suffix (higher storage rate, usable by rules and workbooks) | New table in the data lake tier: _KQL suffix (lower cost) | Existing table: no suffix added; federated tables cannot be targets
WHY: When you create a job you choose where results land, and the suffix tells you the tier. Writing to the analytics tier creates a custom table named with _KQL_CL and is the data promotion pattern, so keep the query narrow with project and where to avoid paying analytics ingestion for columns you do not need. Writing to the lake tier (_KQL) keeps it cheap for later lake queries. You may also append to an existing table you own. Timestamps older than two days are overwritten in TimeGenerated, so preserve the original in another column.
HOOK: Suffix tells the tier: _KQL_CL = analytics, _KQL = lake.

[401] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.2 (Create and manage KQL jobs in Data lake)
FRONT: One-time vs scheduled KQL jobs
BACK: #One-time runs immediately after creation (editing re-runs it) | Scheduled runs by minute, hourly, daily, weekly or monthly within a date range, or indefinitely | Scheduled start must be at least 30 minutes after creation; lookback can reach 12 years
WHY: A one-time job is the investigator's tool: write the query, pick a destination, and it executes as soon as it is saved, returning history that the interactive editor would time out on. A scheduled job is the operations tool for recurring aggregation or detection-style sweeps, with a frequency, a start date and either an end date or run indefinitely; the start time must sit at least half an hour after you save. Because lake ingestion can lag by about 15 minutes, scheduled queries should subtract a delay from now() before applying the lookback.
HOOK: Scheduled jobs: start ≥ 30 minutes out, allow ~15 minutes of ingestion lag.

[402] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.2 (Create and manage KQL jobs in Data lake)
FRONT: KQL job limits and unsupported operators
BACK: #Per tenant: 5 concurrent executions (extra requests rejected), 100 enabled jobs, 1-hour query timeout, 1 output table per job | Not supported: adx(), arg(), externaldata(), ingestion_time(), user-defined functions | Jobs whose source workspace is deleted move to Disabled
WHY: Numbers that distinguish KQL jobs from analytics rules: a tenant may have 100 enabled jobs with at most five running at once, and any single run is cut off after one hour. Each job writes to one table only. The lake query engine does not support cross-service operators, externaldata, ingestion_time or saved functions, so queries written for the analytics tier may need rework. These are per-tenant limits, not per user, and a rejected run is not queued.
HOOK: Five at once, a hundred on, one hour each, one table out.

[403] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.2 (Create and manage KQL jobs in Data lake)
FRONT: Permission needed for a KQL job to create an analytics-tier table
BACK: #Assign Log Analytics Contributor on the workspace to the data lake managed identity (msg-resources-GUID) | Done in the Azure portal: workspace > Access control (IAM) > Add role assignment > Managed identity | The job author needs Entra roles with read across workspaces and write to the analytics tier
WHY: Promotion jobs fail silently if the data lake's own identity cannot write to the target workspace. The lake uses a managed identity named msg-resources followed by a GUID, and that identity must hold Log Analytics Contributor on each workspace where jobs create analytics-tier tables. The assignment is made through Access control (IAM) on the workspace. Separately, the person creating jobs needs directory roles that allow reading the source tables and scheduling jobs across the tenant.
HOOK: The lake writes as msg-resources-GUID; give it Log Analytics Contributor.

[404] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.2 (Create and manage KQL jobs in Data lake)
FRONT: KQL job vs hunting query vs summary rule — picking the mechanism
BACK: #Hunting query: on-demand, analytics tier, results not stored | KQL job: lake tier, scheduled or one-time, results stored (promotion) | Summary rule: analytics or auxiliary source, fixed bins, aggregated results to an Analytics _CL table
WHY: Three features all run KQL on a schedule-like basis, so stems hinge on the source tier and what happens to results. A hunting query is interactive and leaves nothing behind except bookmarks. A KQL job is the only one that reads the data lake tier and can reach years back, writing results to a lake or analytics table. A summary rule aggregates high-volume data in bins of 20 minutes to a day into an analytics custom table so that cheap tiers become reportable; it is not meant for ad-hoc historical investigation.

[405] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.3 (Create and manage Summary rule tables for querying)
FRONT: Summary rules — purpose and destination
BACK: #Aggregate large, noisy datasets in the background into a compact Analytics-tier custom table (name ends in _CL) | Summaries are queryable by analytics rules, hunting, workbooks and long-range reporting | Reduces cost (keep verbose logs in a cheap tier) and can strip sensitive fields
WHY: Summary rules exist for data too large or too cheaply stored to query directly: network, firewall, proxy and cloud audit logs. The rule runs a KQL aggregation on a fixed cadence and writes the result rows (counts per IP, first and last seen, sets of vendors) into a custom table on the Analytics plan, which then feeds detections, workbooks and threat-intelligence matching over long ranges. Azure Monitor adds _RuleName, _BinSize and _BinStartTime columns to each summary row.
HOOK: Summarise the haystack into a small table the rules can afford to read.

[406] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.3 (Create and manage Summary rule tables for querying)
FRONT: Summary rule scheduling — bin size, delay, start time
BACK: #Frequency (bin size) in minutes: 20, 30, 60, 120, 180, 360, 720 or 1440 | Optional delay to wait for late-arriving data; start time for the first bin | No time filter in the query: the bin defines the window on TimeGenerated
WHY: The wizard under Microsoft Sentinel > Configuration > Summary rules asks for name, destination table, query, frequency, optional delay in minutes and start time. The frequency is the bin: each run summarises exactly one bin of TimeGenerated, so the query must not include its own time filter. Delay accounts for ingestion latency so a bin is not summarised before all its data has landed. The maximum historical window is 24 hours, matching the largest bin.
HOOK: Bin sizes: 20, 30, 60, 120, 180, 360, 720, 1440 minutes.

[407] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.3 (Create and manage Summary rule tables for querying)
FRONT: Summary rules on Basic and Auxiliary (data lake) tables
BACK: #Low-cost tiers can be summarised: single-table KQL plus lookup to up to 5 Analytics tables | Analytics-tier sources allow all operators except cross-resource/cross-service and schema-reshaping plugins | Results always land in an Analytics-plan custom table
WHY: The main reason summary rules appear on SC-200 is cost architecture: ingest verbose logs to a Basic or Auxiliary (lake) table where interactive querying is limited, then run a summary rule that aggregates them into the Analytics tier for detection and reporting. On those cheap tiers the query must be single-table, but lookup can join up to five Analytics tables, which is how threat-intelligence matching against firewall logs is done. User-defined functions, union * and cross-workspace queries are not allowed.
HOOK: Cheap table in, summary table out; lookup is your only join.

[408] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.3 (Create and manage Summary rule tables for querying)
FRONT: Summary rule limits and prerequisites
BACK: #100 active rules per workspace; query capped at 10 minutes (alert above 90%); records under 1 MB | Aim for output around 0.01% of source volume | Microsoft Sentinel Contributor role; SummaryLogs diagnostic setting adds cost
WHY: A workspace supports up to one hundred active summary rules, each run must finish inside ten minutes and no result record may exceed one megabyte, so Microsoft's guidance is to test the query on the Hunts page first and shrink the bin if it approaches the limit. Creating rules requires Microsoft Sentinel Contributor and, in the Defender portal, a workspace onboarded there. Summary rules are public cloud only, and enabling SummaryLogs diagnostics for monitoring incurs extra charges.
HOOK: Test the query in Hunts, then shrink the bin if it nears 10 minutes.

[409] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.3 (Create and manage Summary rule tables for querying)
FRONT: Summary rule vs KQL job — which one for which problem
BACK: #Summary rule: recurring fixed-bin aggregation of recent data into Analytics; no lake-tier multi-year sweep | KQL job: one-time or scheduled query over the lake, lookback up to 12 years, can promote raw rows | Both write custom tables; only summary rules are limited to 24-hour windows
WHY: The two features overlap enough to be tested side by side. Choose a summary rule when the goal is an ongoing, cost-saving aggregate of high-volume logs that detections and workbooks will read every day. Choose a KQL job when the goal is to look back months or years in the lake, match historical data against new indicators, or copy a selected subset of raw events into the analytics tier for a case. A stem saying 'retrospective' or 'historical' is a job; one saying 'reduce ingestion cost for reporting' is a summary rule.

[410] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.4 (Hunt for threats by using Notebooks, including connection to the Sentinel MCP Server)
FRONT: Microsoft Sentinel notebooks — platform and prerequisites
BACK: #Jupyter notebooks hosted on an Azure Machine Learning workspace (compute runs there) | Sentinel > Threat management > Notebooks > Templates > Create from template > launch to Azure Machine Learning | Need a Sentinel role on the workspace plus an AML role on the ML workspace
WHY: Classic Sentinel notebooks are Jupyter documents that run on Azure Machine Learning compute and query the workspace through Kqlmagic and MSTICPy. The Notebooks page offers templates such as a getting-started guide, a credential scan and a guided investigation of process alerts; Create from template clones the notebook into your AML workspace and opens it there. Two sets of permissions apply: a Sentinel role (Reader or higher) to read data and an Azure Machine Learning role to use compute.
HOOK: Notebook = Jupyter + AML workspace + MSTICPy.

[411] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.4 (Hunt for threats by using Notebooks, including connection to the Sentinel MCP Server)
FRONT: MSTICPy — what it adds to a hunting notebook
BACK: #Python package from Microsoft's threat intelligence center for notebooks | Data retrieval from Sentinel/Defender, enrichment (TI, geolocation, WHOIS), analysis and visualisation (timelines, process trees) | Configured through msticpyconfig.yaml
WHY: MSTICPy is the library that makes a Sentinel notebook more than a KQL client. It provides query providers for the workspace and Defender, enrichment lookups against threat intelligence and geo-IP sources, anomaly and time-series helpers, and interactive visualisations such as event timelines and process trees that workbooks cannot draw. Templates import it and read connection details from a configuration file. Exam stems mentioning 'Python' or 'machine learning on Sentinel data' point at notebooks with MSTICPy.

[412] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.4 (Hunt for threats by using Notebooks, including connection to the Sentinel MCP Server)
FRONT: Notebook vs workbook — when to reach for each
BACK: #Workbook: built-in dashboards and reports over KQL, no code, shared in the portal | Notebook: code (Python), custom analytics and ML, external data, bespoke visuals | Notebooks need AML compute; workbooks need only workspace read
WHY: Both features visualise workspace data, but the exam separates them by programmability. Workbooks are the no-code reporting layer: parameterised KQL charts and grids saved as templates and viewed in the portal. Notebooks are for analysis workbooks cannot express, such as running a clustering model over sign-ins, joining with an on-premises dataset, or producing a process tree, and they require Python skills and an Azure Machine Learning workspace. 'Custom machine learning' or 'external dataset' in a stem signals notebook.
HOOK: Chart it = workbook; compute it = notebook.

[413] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.4 (Hunt for threats by using Notebooks, including connection to the Sentinel MCP Server)
FRONT: Data lake exploration notebooks in Visual Studio Code
BACK: #Microsoft Sentinel extension for VS Code: Jupyter notebooks with PySpark over the data lake | MicrosoftSentinelProvider class reads lake tables and save_as_table() writes to lake or analytics custom tables | Notebook jobs run on a schedule, optionally parameterised
WHY: Alongside classic AML notebooks, the Sentinel data lake has its own notebook experience: install the Microsoft Sentinel Visual Studio Code extension, attach a Spark compute session, and use the MicrosoftSentinelProvider helper to load lake tables as DataFrames and write results back with save_as_table into either tier. Notebooks can be saved as scheduled or parameterised jobs for recurring transformation, summarisation or model scoring. This is the lake-era answer to 'run Python over years of data'.
HOOK: Lake notebooks: VS Code + Spark + MicrosoftSentinelProvider.

[414] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.4 (Hunt for threats by using Notebooks, including connection to the Sentinel MCP Server)
FRONT: Microsoft Sentinel MCP server — what it is
BACK: #A hosted Model Context Protocol server exposing Sentinel data and tools to AI agents and assistants | MCP host (VS Code, Security Copilot, Copilot Studio, Foundry) ↔ MCP client ↔ Sentinel MCP server | Signs in with Microsoft Entra; most tools require the data lake
WHY: The Model Context Protocol is the open standard agents use to call tools. Microsoft hosts a Sentinel MCP server so that an AI client, whether GitHub Copilot in VS Code, Security Copilot, Copilot Studio or an agent built in Foundry, can search tables, query the data lake and analyse entities through natural language without the analyst writing KQL. Nothing is installed locally; the client is pointed at the server URL and authenticates with Entra. Onboarding the Sentinel data lake is a prerequisite for most tools.
HOOK: MCP = agents calling Sentinel tools over a hosted endpoint.

[415] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.4 (Hunt for threats by using Notebooks, including connection to the Sentinel MCP Server)
FRONT: Sentinel MCP tool collections and their endpoints
BACK: #Data exploration: https://sentinel.microsoft.com/mcp/data-exploration — search tables, query the lake, analyse entities | Triage: https://sentinel.microsoft.com/mcp/triage — incident triage and hunting | Security Copilot agent creation: https://sentinel.microsoft.com/mcp/security-copilot-agent-creation
WHY: Tools are grouped into scenario collections, each with its own server URL. Data exploration is the hunting collection: it finds the right table for a question, runs queries against the data lake and runs entity analysis for a user, URL or IP. Triage wraps incident APIs so an agent can summarise and prioritise incidents and hunt over your data. The agent creation collection is for building Security Copilot agents conversationally. Saved advanced hunting queries can also be exposed as custom MCP tools.
HOOK: Hunting agents connect to the data-exploration collection.

[416] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.4 (Hunt for threats by using Notebooks, including connection to the Sentinel MCP Server)
FRONT: Connecting Jupyter in VS Code to the Sentinel MCP server
BACK: #Add the Sentinel MCP server URL to VS Code's MCP configuration and sign in with Entra | GitHub Copilot agent mode then lists the collection's tools and can draft or run lake queries from a notebook | User needs at least Security Reader; data lake onboarded
WHY: The exam bullet ties notebooks to the MCP server. In practice an analyst working in a VS Code notebook adds the Sentinel MCP endpoint as a server in the editor's MCP settings, completes the Entra sign-in, and then GitHub Copilot in agent mode can call tools such as table search and lake query to explore data and generate code for the notebook. The same server can be added as a tool collection in Security Copilot, Copilot Studio and Foundry. Permissions follow the user, so a Security Reader sees read-only tools.
HOOK: VS Code + Copilot agent mode + Sentinel MCP server = notebook that writes its own KQL.

[417] cat=senthunt obj=3.2.4 (Hunt for threats by using Notebooks, including connection to the Sentinel MCP Server)
FRONT: Permissions and prerequisites for the Sentinel MCP server
BACK: #Security Reader (minimum) to list and invoke tools; actions obey the user's existing permissions | Microsoft Sentinel data lake onboarded for data exploration tools | Optional: Sentinel in the Defender portal, Defender XDR/Endpoint, Security Copilot for richer tools
WHY: The MCP server adds no new privilege model; it brokers calls under the identity that signed in, so an agent can only read what the person could read in the portal. Security Reader is the floor for discovering and invoking tools, and the triage collection respects whatever incident permissions the user already has. Because the data exploration tools run against the lake, tenants that have not onboarded the data lake get little from the server. Stems about 'least privilege for an AI assistant querying Sentinel' land on Security Reader.
HOOK: Agent = you: Security Reader floor, your permissions ceiling.
